Coroner officials confirm IDs of five more people killed in crash of Kobe Bryant’s helicopter – Daily News

						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X

			Trending:
The Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner on Wednesday night officially identified five more people killed Sunday in the crash of Kobe Bryant’s helicopter in Calabasas.
Each of the five had previously been named by friends or family.
Those identified Wednesday were:
–Bryant’s daughter Gianna Bryant, 13, a point guard for the Orange County-based Mambas, Kobe Bryant’s elite travel basketball team.
—Payton Chester, 13, a Mambas player and a student at St. Margaret’s Episcopal School.
—Alyssa Altobelli, 14, a Mambas player and a student at Ensign Intermediate.
–Keri Altobelli, 46, Alyssa’s mother.
—Christina Mauser, 38, a coach in Kobe Bryant’s basketball program and also at Harbor Day School in Corona del Mar.
The five people were identified after testing and analysis of DNA, coroner officials said.
Those identified by coroner officials earlier were Kobe Bryant, 41; Orange Coast College baseball coach John Altobelli, 56, father of Alyssa and husband of Keri; Sarah Chester, 45, Newport Beach, mother of Payton; and pilot Ara Zobayan, 50, a Huntington Beach resident.
The first four identifications were confirmed through fingerprints, officials said.
In a statement, the Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner said the cause of death for all nine people was certified as blunt trauma and the manner of death was certified as “accident.”
Get the latest news delivered daily!
We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community.
Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request.
We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions.
If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears.
Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com.
