Kobe Bryant Book For Young Adults Hits No.
1 On NY Times List – Deadline

					By Bruce Haring
pmc-editorial-manager
The late Kobe Bryant’s legacy continues to grow, as the latest release from his Granity Studios is expected to debut at No.
1 on The New York Times middle-grade hardcover list to be published April 19.
The book, The Wizenard Series: Season One by Wesley King, already is No.
1 on Amazon’s bestseller list for children’s basketball books.
Season One follows the progress of a young basketball player.
The book is described by Granity as “a story of strain and sacrifice, supernatural breakthroughs, and supreme dedication to the game.” It was released last week, with Bryant credited as the series creator and story lines visionary.
 




			blogherads.adq.push(function () {
								blogherads
					.defineSlot( 'medrec', 'gpt-dsk-tab-mid-article1-uid0' )
								.setTargeting( 'pos', ["mid-article1","mid","mid-articleX","mid-article","300x251"] )
								.setSubAdUnitPath("ros\/mid-article")
												.addSize([[2,2],[300,250],[620,350],[300,251],[501,282],[3,3],[2,4],[4,2]])
												;
							});
Granity has experienced a bestseller list bounce from Bryant’s untimely death in January in a helicopter crash that claimed the life of eight others, including his teenaged daughter.
The other books from Granity to make best-seller lists earlier this year include Epoca: The Tree Of Ecrof, Legacy And The Queen and The Wizenard: Training Camp, the latter the prequel to the new Season One.
Bryant is no stranger to book publishing success.
His 2018 book The Mamba Mentality: How I Play was also a best-seller and has been atop several Amazon lists for much of this year.
Granity said after Bryant’s death that it would continue his mission of “using creative education to inspire people to be the best versions of themselves.”
Bryant was an Academy Award winner in 2018 for his animated short film, Dear Basketball.
He was announced as a member of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame’s Class of 2020 last weekend.
Subscribe to Deadline Breaking News Alerts and keep your inbox happy.
Launch dates for broadcast, cable and streaming programs
Up-to-date lists for broadcast, cable and streaming series
Pandemic-proof vs. pandemic-contingent broadcast lineups
Signup for Breaking News Alerts &amp; Newsletters
Get our latest storiesin the feed of your favorite networks
We want to hear from you!
Send us a tip using our annonymous form.
Sign up for our breaking news alerts
Copyright © 2020 Penske Business Media, LLC.
All Rights reserved.
