Los Angeles Lakers' Kobe Bryant tops Michael Jordan's mark for career ASG points
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Of all the NBA greats who have headlined the All-Star Game in the past, no one's scored more than Kobe Bryant.
The Los Angeles Lakers guard broke Michael Jordan's career All-Star Game scoring record on Sunday night.
Bryant needed 19 points to eclipse Jordan's record of 262 career All-Star points.
He broke the record on a fast-break dunk in the third quarter of the West's 152-149 victory.
Bryant, who ended the night with 27 points and also passed Oscar Robertson (246 career All-Star points) and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (251 points) during the game, tied the record on two free throws in the third quarter,
taking a break between them to wipe blood from his nose after a
hard foul from Miami's Dwyane Wade.
Bryant stayed in the game after the hit, but left to be evaluated afterward and did not speak to the media.
The Lakers announced later on their website that a CT scan revealed Bryant suffered a nasal fracture.
The Lakers said Monday that the team will give an update on Bryant's health Tuesday after his expected visit with ear, nose and throat specialist Dr. John Rehm.
Bryant is a four-time MVP of the All-Star Game, most recently winning the award in 2011 after scoring 37 points in his home arena.
He's tied with Bob Petit for most MVPs.
It was Bryant's 14th All-Star appearance, tying him with Boston Celtics forward Kevin Garnett for the most All-Star selections among active players.
Jordan played in 13 All-Star Games.
"Tonight, he does what he normally does," Wade said of Bryant.
"He got 27.
He's Kobe Bryant.
He scores the ball.
He's a tough cover.
But it's great being a little piece of history.
He's one of the best of all time.
We will one day say we had the honor of playing against one of the greatest players to ever play the game of basketball."
Wade also suggested that Kobe might not have the All-Star scoring record for long considering how Kevin Durant, the MVP of Sunday's game, led the West with 36 points to bring his total to 85 in just three All-Star appearances.
LeBron James has scored 207 career points in the league's midseason showcase game and will also soon be closing in on Kobe.
Information from ESPN.com's Michael Wallace and The Associated Press was used in this report.
