  Kobe Bryant Fans Outraged at His Absence From 2020 MTV VMAs 'In Memoriam' Segment | Entertainment Tonight
Viewers of the 2020 MTV VMAs took to social media to express their disappointment at the absence of late NBA star Kobe Bryant in the awards show’s “In Memoriam” segment.
The ceremony was broadcast from New York on Sunday and the segment honored stars who have passed away in recent months.
While Travis Barker's introduction mentioned late rappers like Juice Wrld and Pop Smoke and noted that the segment would honor “other brilliant artists we lost,” not everyone included in the tribute was primarily associated with music -- such as film actor, Chadwick Boseman.
Many viewers subsequently believed Bryant, too, deserved a mention.
“Well hell if y’all gone show Chadwick show Kobe too.
Kobe did music too.
#VMAs,” tweeted one fan.
“Who at the #VMAs forgot to include Kobe Bryant in the In Memoriam section?!
?” posted another viewer, who pointed out Boseman’s inclusion, as well as that of late Glee actress, Naya Rivera.
“You added Naya and Chadwick, you weren't sticking to just music."
Well hell if yall gone show Chadwick show Kobe too.
Kobe did music too.
#VMAs
Who at the #VMAs forgot to include Kobe Bryant in the In Memoriam section?!?
You added Naya and Chadwick, you weren't sticking to just music.😒 pic.twitter.com/6I6UvGk8Mx
Another viewer wrote: “How DARE you guys Not pay tribute to KOBE BRYANT!!!!
He is an Academy Award winner and Legend!!!
And you choose to leave him out of your 2020 tribute!
#BoycottVMAs #VMAs.”
@MTV@vmasHow DARE you guys Not pay tribute to KOBE BRYANT!!!!
He is an Academy Award winner and Legend!!!
And you choose to leave him out of your 2020 tribute!
#BoycottVMAs#VMAs
While he was not mentioned in the tribute, Bryant -- who died in a helicopter crash in January -- did appear to get saluted by rapper DaBaby, who kicked off his performance in Los Angeles Lakers colors.
See more reactions to the snub below.
HOW DID THEY NOT INCLUDE KOBE ?
!1?1 #VMAs
How the HELL did @MTV leave out Kobe Bryant???
DISRESPECTFUL!!
!
Um how does @MTV not mention Kobe Bryant when showing everyone who we lost this year?
#MambaForever
#VMAs did they forget kobe in the memorial segment because umm???
?
....they left Kobe Bryant out of this memorial line up.
🤦🏾‍♂️ #VMAs
Ok but where was Kobe #VMAspic.twitter.com/PjMsfX9ZWk
See more on the 2020 MTV VMAs below.

      By signing up, you agree to our
      
        Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
RELATED CONTENT:

        2020 MTV VMAs: The Complete Winners List

        Lady Gaga Wins First Tricon Award at 2020 MTV VMAs

        CNCO Bust Out Their Dance Moves for Impressive 'Beso' VMAs Performance

    By signing up, you agree to our
    
    Terms of Use and Privacy Policy

    By signing up, you agree to our
    
    Terms of Use and Privacy Policy

              ® &amp; © 2020 CBS Studios Inc. © 2020 CBS Television Distribution and CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
