Kobe Bryant's Sponsorship Will Rebound
 Kobe Bryant's days in a Colorado court seem to be over.
With the sexual assault charge against him being dropped this week, Bryant faces only a civil lawsuit from his alleged victim.
But that suit will most likely be dropped after Bryant and his accuser come to a cash settlement.
This fall he will be back on the basketball court, wearing the purple-and-gold jersey of the Los Angeles Lakers.
 But will his sponsors return?
The stigma of being an alleged rapist is a tough label to shake, and no company is likely to sign Bryant to endorse its products in the coming year.
But what happens in a year or two?
Chances are that companies will come calling on Bryant again, particularly if he plays at a high level and continues to lead his team far in the playoffs.
Despite the rape charges, Kobe is still idolized in Los Angeles and around the country.
His jersey was the fifth best-selling NBA jersey last year.
Bryant's deals with McDonald's and Ferrero's Nutella brand expired in 2003 and were not renewed.
Even without those contracts, though, Bryant is still the NBA's second highest-paid endorser after LeBron James.
His current deals with Nike, Russell's  Spalding brand, Upper Deck and Coca-Cola's  Sprite brand are worth $13 million per year.
Nike is footing the biggest bill at $9 million annually in a multiyear deal signed a month before Bryant's Colorado troubles began.
The deal was expected to have a lot of upside for Bryant if certain sales goals were reached.
Those sales targets are a nonissue, however, with Nike yet to promote a Bryant-branded sneaker.
But with the criminal case being dismissed, Nike and the rest of Bryant's sponsors must pay the remaining balance on their contracts even if they don't use him in any advertising.
Will new companies hitch their wagons to Bryant's tainted image?
Look at Baltimore Ravens linebacker RayLewisRay Lewis, who exemplifies how the American public can overlook past transgressions by its sports stars.
In 2000 the perennial All-Pro was involved in an altercation that resulted in the stabbing deaths of two people.
Lewis was closely linked to the murders and eventually pled guilty to misdemeanor obstruction of justice charges.
Lewis was the Super Bowl MVP the year after the incident occurred, but companies wouldn't touch him.
Yet, four years later, he's one of the NFL's most marketable players-- not to mention the cover boy of Electronic Arts videogame Madden NFL 2005--with major endorsement deals from Reebok and Under Armour.
And if Bryant's sponsors don't come back?
Kobe should be all right.
His new contract with the Lakers pays him $136 million over the next seven years.
At that point, he'll be only 32 years old and ready for another mega-millions contract to play basketball, with or without corporate endorsements.
The Celebrity 100 06.18.04 Fame comes and goes faster than ever in this age of Insta-Celebrities.
We look at the top earners by category.
The Business Of Basketball 02.06.04 See how team valuations have changed in our annual ranking of all 29 NBA franchises.
I am a senior editor at Forbes and focused mainly on the business of sports and our annual franchise valuations.
I also spend a lot of my time digging into what athletes…
I am a senior editor at Forbes and focused mainly on the business of sports and our annual franchise valuations.
I also spend a lot of my time digging into what athletes
I am a senior editor at Forbes and focused mainly on the business of sports and our annual franchise valuations.
I also spend a lot of my time digging into what athletes earn on and off the field of play.
I've profiled a bunch of athletes that go by one name: LeBron, Shaq, Danica and others.
I also started our biennial B-School rankings; annual features on the Best Places for Business (metros, states and countries); and America's Best Banks.
I joined Forbes in 1998 after working 3 years at Financial World magazine.
Email: kbadenhausen@forbes.com.
I am a senior editor at Forbes and focused mainly on the business of sports and our annual franchise valuations.
I also spend a lot of my time digging into what athletes earn on and off the field of play.
I've profiled a bunch of athletes that go by one name: LeBron, Shaq, Danica and others.
I also started our biennial B-School rankings; annual features on the Best Places for Business (metros, states and countries); and America's Best Banks.
I joined Forbes in 1998 after working 3 years at Financial World magazine.
Email: kbadenhausen@forbes.com.
