Kobe Inc. gets no answer on zoning request, but finds community support in Newport Beach – Orange County Register

						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X

			Trending:
Kobe Bryant receives positive feedback from the public during Kobe Inc.'s request for a 10-year zoning extension at a public hearing Thursday in Newport Beach.
 Kobe Bryant didn't speak during the public hearing in Newport Beach on whether to grant Kobe Inc.'s request for a 10-year zoning extension, but he made time for fans after the brief hearing on Thursday.
 Kobe Bryant shook hands and took time for photo ops Thursday after a public hearing on whether to grant Kobe Inc.'s request for a 10-year zoning extension in Newport Beach.
Kobe Inc. plans to move into the 16,650-square-foot building at 1499 Monrovia Ave. by fall.
From left: Newport Beach assistant planner Makana Nova, deputy community development director Brenda Wisneski, and administrative assistant Brittany Ramirez show plans for the building during a public hearing on Thursday.
Kobe Bryant attends a public hearing on whether to grant Kobe Inc.'s request for a 10-year zoning extension on Thursday.
There were no opponents, only praise from the public for the project.
A rendering shows the proposed design for Kobe Inc. in Newport Beach.
NEWPORT BEACH – Kobe Inc.’s most valuable player said he’s thrilled with support from the community, although he left a public hearing Thursday with no decision on how long the firm will be able to operate in its new digs.
The Lakers’ Kobe Bryant didn’t speak during the meeting, but he talked with residents afterward – thanking them for their support, talking about the Lakers’ season and posing for photos.
“I love it here,” Bryant said.
“It’s just a great place to be.
… It’s home for me.
I’m not going anywhere.”
The purpose of the hearing: to consider whether the headquarters for Kobe Inc. will get a 10-year extension on a zoning change at 1499 Monrovia Ave.
The 16,650-square-foot building is slated to change from commercial and office zoning to residential zoning on Feb. 1, 2022.
Hearing officer Bill Conners said to expect his written decision in about a week.
The company’s mission, Bryant said, is to own and grow brands and ideas that redefine the sports industry.
He started last year with an investment in BodyArmor, a sports drink company.
Residents at the meeting said they looked forward to seeing what Kobe Inc. would do with the building, which one resident called a bit of an eyesore.
Some suggested keeping the commercial zoning on the property permanently.
“I think the city should open this up to Kobe Inc. forever, forget 10 years,” said Jesse Encinas, who worked in the building when it was Road &amp; Track magazine, headquartered there until 2012.
Kobe Inc. has proposed spending $5.5 million on interior and exterior improvements to the two-story building.
The 57-year-old building will require substantial structural, mechanical, electrical and plumbing improvements, according to city documents.
Plans for the building show open office space surrounding a large circular staircase in the middle of the building, a private garage and a cafe.
Andrea Fairchild, president of Kobe Inc., said there also will be a sound room and dark room to shoot digital content.
The company hopes to move in by fall.
Kobe Inc. will use the building for its operations in the U.S. and some in China, Fairchild said.
“This is our global headquarters, and we plan to be here for the long term,” she said.
“We’re excited to be your neighbors.”
Kobe Inc. bought the property from the city last year for $5.8 million, according to city documents.
If the extension is not granted, the property could not be used for commercial purposes after 2022.
The property was singled out for a zoning change in 2008 in a city effort to get nonconforming structures out of residential areas.
The city approved the current date for the zoning change in 2012.
“I believe the investment we’re going to make as a company to improve the property for Kobe Inc.’s use is critical,” said Scott Wetzel, tenant representative for the company.
Bryant said he was excited to build his company in the city he’s called home for the past 16 years.
Now, Bryant said, he’s looking for more smart investments and plans to add team members to build his company.
“I’m very excited,” Bryant said.
“It feels amazing to have the support of the community.”
Contact the writer: 714-796-7990 or mnicolai@ocregister.com; on Twitter @MeganNicolai
Get the latest news delivered daily!
We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community.
Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request.
We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions.
If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears.
Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com.
