Billups brushes off MVP chatter - Orlando Sentinel
A lot of people are pushing Chauncey Billups -- the best player on the best team in the league -- for the NBA Most Valuable Player Award.
He isn't one of them.
Neither is the rest of the Detroit Pistons.
"It would be nice if he won it, but that kind of stuff really isn't a big concern for us," Detroit General Manager Joe Dumars said before the Pistons-Magic game Friday night.
"It would be like a dessert.
We're more interested in getting another four-course meal [another championship]."
Billups is considered one of the top four candidates in a season where there is no clear-cut choice.
There is Steve Nash in Phoenix, LeBron James in Cleveland, Kobe Bryant with the Lakers and Billups in Detroit.
He is having his finest season, averaging career highs in points (19.1 points per game) and assists (8.7 assists per game), clearly the catalyst for the team that has held the best record (61-15) all season.
He is one of only five players in the league shooting better than 90 percent from the free-throw line.
He is first among Eastern Conference point guards with 26 double-doubles.
And he leads the NBA in assists-to-turnover ratio (4.04-1).
Yet the dynamics of this MVP race have reopened the debate over what criteria should be used in the voting.
Bryant has been downright dazzling this season -- the best player in the league -- averaging 35.1 points, the most since Michael Jordan averaged 35 points in the 1987-88 season.
Not since that season has a player from a team outside of the best four records in the league won the MVP.
Jordan won the MVP that year, and the Bulls had only the seventh-best record.
"I think it should be the best player in the league, and I think Kobe Bryant is the best player in the league," Billups said.
"That's the way I always looked at the MVP Award.'"
Billups said he is flattered that his name keeps being mentioned, but he shrugged off the possibility of winning the award.
He won't lose any sleep, and neither will Dumars if he doesn't win.
"That [his candidacy] proves they aren't looking at it like I do.
I'm not the best player in the league.
I know that," he said.
"But I'm on a great team, and I'm the catalyst, and I'm having a great season.
Voters are going to do what they want."
Kobe chases history
Bryant is close to joining a very exclusive club, which is why he should win the MVP Award despite playing for a team that is far from the league's elite.
He is trying to become the fifth player in league history to average 35 points in a season, joining Wilt Chamberlain, Elgin Baylor, Rick Barry and Jordan, who did it twice.
Chamberlain did it five times, including the season he averaged 50.4 points, a record that never will be broken.
Bryant recently broke Baylor's Lakers record (set in 1962-63) with his 24th game this season with at least 40 points, another remarkable achievement.
He is the first player since Jordan in 1992-93 to take 2,000 shots in a season.
Hall of Fame haircut
Dumars said Friday night it was hard to describe the feeling he got when he received the call March 30 that he had been elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame.
It was overwhelming, almost numbing to him.
"I got the call around noon when I was getting my hair cut, but I didn't tell anyone until about 7 when I got home and told my wife and called my mother," he said.
"I just went back to the office and sat there through the rest of the day.
I didn't want to talk to anyone.
It was a weird feeling.
I just had to let it sink in."
When the call came, he was in the barber chair, and he hardly could hear the voice on the other end.
"I knew who it was, but the barber is cutting away.
Buzzzzzz.
I could hear the voice at the other end say, 'We're happy to inform you that,' .
.
.
and I can't really hear him because I'm still getting my hair cut.
Buzzzzzzzzz," he laughed.
"And finally I asked him [barber], 'Could you hold off just a minute on the cut?'
So I talked a couple minutes on the phone, then finished my haircut."
State of history
Now that the Florida Gators are champs, here is something for the Miami Heat to think about:
Only three times in history has one state had both the NCAA champion and the NBA champion the same year.
When UCLA won NCAA titles in 1972 and 1975, the Lakers and Golden State Warriors won NBA titles those same seasons.
And in 1989, Michigan won the NCAA crown when the Pistons won a title in the NBA.
Around the Rim
Now that the Los Angeles Clippers likely will finish ahead of the Lakers for the second consecutive season, they finally are getting some of the Hollywood crowd at their games.
Instead of just regulars such as Billy Crystal and Penny Marshall, people like Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, Dustin Hoffman and Eddie Murphy -- fixtures at Lakers games -- are coming to watch the Clippers.
They haven't won a playoff series since 1976 when they were the Buffalo Braves, but the Clippers now believe it can happen again, which might really create some new fans.
"We've got more A-listers than usual this year," Clippers forward Elton Brand said.
"That comes with winning."
Darko Milicic and Carlos Arroyo aren't the only ones who have benefited from a midseason trade.
Chris Wilcox, now in his fourth NBA season, was struggling with the Clippers -- averaging 4.5 points -- but he has flourished in Seattle since the trade in February, and it couldn't come at a better time.
He will become a free agent this summer.
Wilcox had a 26-point, 24-rebound game last week against Houston, and he is averaging 15.0 points and 8.0 rebounds with the Sonics, making him considerably more marketable than he would have been in Los Angeles.
The Denver Nuggets are about to win their first division title since 1988, but there won't be much celebrating when it becomes official this week.
"We don't want any champagne," Marcus Camby said.
"None of that stuff like they do in baseball.
Just a quick acknowledgment.
We have a bigger picture.
We want to get a ring."
A Final Thought: With the Clippers likely making the playoffs, when should we expect plagues of locusts and frogs?
