LAKERS: Kobe Bryant announces plans to retire following this season – Press Enterprise

						GET BREAKING NEWS IN YOUR BROWSER.
CLICK HERE TO TURN ON NOTIFICATIONS.
X

			Trending:
Kobe Bryant, maybe the greatest Laker in the organization’s history, announced his plans to retire following the 2015-16 season Sunday.
The announcement came in a letter written for The Players’ Tribune.
“This season is all I have left to give,” Bryant wrote.
“My heart can take the pounding.
My mind can handle the grind.
But my body knows it’s time to say goodbye.”
Bryant is in the midst of his 20th season and struggling like he’s never have before.
Bryant is shooting a career-worst 31.5 percent from the field and 19.5 percent from 3-point range.
Bryant’s full announcement can be found here.
Here’s an excerpt:
I played through the sweat and hurt
Not because challenge called me
But because YOU called me.
I did everything for YOU
Because that’s what you do
When someone makes you feel as
Alive as you’ve made me feel.
You gave a six-year-old boy his Laker dream
And I’ll always love you for it.
But I can’t love you obsessively for much longer.
This season is all I have left to give.
My heart can take the pounding
My mind can handle the grind
But my body knows it’s time to say goodbye.
NBA commisioner Adam Silver issued the following statement:
“With 17 NBA All-Star selections, an NBA MVP, five NBA championships with the Lakers, two Olympic gold medals and a relentless work ethic, Kobe Bryant is one of the greatest players in the history of our game.
Whether competing in the Finals or hoisting jump shots after midnight in an empty gym, Kobe has an unconditional love for the game.
“I join Kobe’s millions of fans around the world in congratulating him on an outstanding NBA career and thank him for so many thrilling memories.”
Clipper guard Jamal Crawford said it was mentality, work ethic and talent that set Bryant apart.
“To me, he’s the best player I’ve ever played against,” Crawford told the Register.
“He’s the Michael Jordan of his era.
I don’t think we’ll see another.”
Get the latest news delivered daily!
We invite you to use our commenting platform to engage in insightful conversations about issues in our community.
Although we do not pre-screen comments, we reserve the right at all times to remove any information or materials that are unlawful, threatening, abusive, libelous, defamatory, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, profane, indecent or otherwise objectionable to us, and to disclose any information necessary to satisfy the law, regulation, or government request.
We might permanently block any user who abuses these conditions.
If you see comments that you find offensive, please use the “Flag as Inappropriate” feature by hovering over the right side of the post, and pulling down on the arrow that appears.
Or, contact our editors by emailing moderator@scng.com.
