Sports News, Scores, Schedules & Standings | National Post
The Arizona Coyotes have renounced the rights to Mitchell Miller, who has admitted to bullying a classmate since the beginning of junior high school.
The last time Tyson fought as a professional was in the District of Columbia in 2005, when he infamously lost to Kevin McBride
No one in hockey media had a more direct experience with the impact of fighting on the game than Kypreos.
It’s what made his NHL career, and it also ended it
The Dodgers are a glamour franchise in a beautiful, classic ballpark.
The Rays are so unloved that they are trying to sell half of themselves to Montreal for some reason
For now, playing privileges have been taken away from those involved
Many around the NHL are bullish on the route the Senators have followed and are confident the club is headed in the right direction.
Hall of Fame coach Brian Kilrea isn't a big fan of Ontario government rules set out for the OHL's return to play in February.
Brian Burke saw Kevin Lowe as an all-in player in Edmonton during the glory days but didn’t have the full picture with what he meant to the Oilers until talking to Mark Messier one day in Vancouver when Messier was with the Canucks and Burke was the general manager.
I’ll still make the argument he was the greatest hockey player ever, but I’ll sadly scratch him off my hero list for endorsing Donald Trump.
The Vancouver Canucks' arena opened for business 25 years ago last month.
It remains a vibrant space, three owners later
Find the best places within the city of Ottawa.
From local businesses to food to medical to legal services.
The Dodgers are a glamour franchise in a beautiful, classic ballpark.
The Rays are so unloved that they are trying to sell half of themselves to Montreal for some reason
MLB Commissioner Rob Manfred said it was a 'bittersweet' end to the season
For reasons known only to the baseball gods, Kershaw has a peculiar tendency to take the mound for playoff starts with only some of his pitching arsenal working effectively
Kershaw, who is expected to start Game 1, is one of greatest pitchers of this or any other generation.
But, he also kind of stinks in the postseason
If the Jays are going to move from competing to winning to winning a lot, it’s going to be the arms that they don’t yet have at the major-league level that take them
Featured
A remarkable playoff run by the 23-year-old Denver Nuggets player from Ontario included scoring 50 points, then 42, then 50 again in consecutive games
Many teams have gone ahead and decided that bubble results meant something, with the 76ers and Rockets firing their coaches
The NBA all-rookie second team guard posted a career-high in the Heat's win over the Celtics
Ujiri had a lot of time to think about the anti-racism movement and his own run-in with a police officer last year, 'What if this had gone the total wrong way?'
That weather system you see moving out from southern Ontario toward the west coast is a massive front of schadenfreude
Featured
'When he told me the news, No.
1, I wanted to make sure he was OK personally.
Professionally, we have to keep on carrying on'
As proof of the problem one only needs to glance at the White House, another place that wanted to just power past the virus and which has been racking up positive tests
They also, perplexingly, seem to have a difficult time figuring out that the mask goes over the mouth and nose
Cincinnati Reds announcer Thom Brennaman paused his apology, five innings after making the comment, to call a home run
This is a problem that had long been suspected, even if the CFL never quite wanted to admit it so publicly
The Arsenal star player, Mesut Ozil, saved Gunnersaurus from extinction
The SG Ripdorf/Molzen II team sacrificed a tight defense, fielding only seven players as a coronavirus precaution
It’s a shot that displays some of the reasons why Davies is rapidly becoming a global star
It will be the first time that a player who represents Canada internationally takes the field in a men’s Champions League final.
Did I mention Davies is a teenager?
Minutes before the scheduled start of the Toronto FC and D.C. United game, Major League Soccer called off the game — citing two problematic COVID-19 tests
If having a 15-time major winner for a father weren't advantage enough, Charlie Woods had his dad caddying for him during the event
The Aroostook Valley Country Club has its pro shop and parking lot in the state of Maine, while the clubhouse and fairways are in New Brunswick
Woods is skipping next week's WGC-Mexico Championship but will play the March 12-15 Players Championship — health permitting
There were two lightning strikes at the club and a tree near the 16th green was hit, according to the PGA Tour, which said six people were injured by debris
Henderson, at 21 already the winningest Canadian pro golfer, says taking the CP Women’s Open title in Regina last year was 'probably the highlight of (her) career so far'
Tennis player posted a photo on Instagram recently from a restaurant in Pittsburgh with the caption "Pitt stop".
While Shapovalov was in no mood for moral victories, there were indeed many positives to take away from New York
The Serb was disqualified in the fourth round despite pleading his case for 12 minutes
The U.S. Open is beginning again, but almost nothing like last year's spectacular scenes will be repeated this year
Pospisil is the choice as Postmedia’s Male Athlete of the Year for 2019
365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4
© 2020 National Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. All rights reserved.
Unauthorized distribution, transmission or republication strictly prohibited.
This website uses cookies to personalize your content (including ads), and allows us to analyze our traffic.
Read more about cookies here.
By continuing to use our site, you agree to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
