Kobe Bryant set to play final game in Philadelphia - The Morning Call
 PHILADELPHIA — Expect the Philadelphia fans to be vocal during Kobe Bean Bryant's last NBA game here tonight.
 Based on the past 15 years, there could be boos every time the former Lower Merion High School star touches the ball.
But Bryant, who announced Sunday he plans to retire at the end of his 20th season, will undoubtedly hear some cheers from the Philly faithful in his final stop at the Wells Fargo Center.
 The fans apparently haven't forgiven Bryant for saying he was going to "cut their hearts out" prior to going out and getting 19 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists in a 100-86 Game 4 victory over the Sixers in the 2001 NBA Finals.
They're also probably not thrilled that he won five NBA titles.
 Injuries limited Bryant to 41 of a possible 164 games over the previous two seasons and he's clearly not the same player when he earned two NBA Finals MVPs and 17 all-star selections.
 The 37-year-old Bryant is averaging 15.5 points (his lowest since 1997-98) in 13 games for the 2-14 Lakers this season.
He's shooting a career-low 30.5 percent from the floor, as well as 20.2 percent on 3-pointers.
In the past four games, he's only 18-for-76 (23.6 percent), including a 1-for-14 outing in last Tuesday's blowout drubbing by the Warriors.
 Meanwhile, the Sixers are the only team below the Lakers in the standings.
They've tied the league record for most losses to start a season (18) and set a major professional sports mark with 28 consecutive defeats (counting 10 to end last year).
 The Sixers, who are favored tonight for the first time this season, would benefit from the Lakers winning some games because Philly gets Los Angeles' 2016 first-round pick if the Lakers don't end up in the draft's top three.
Bryant would love to win more.
 Bryant, who tried to emulate Michael Jordan, and Sixers fans have a complicated relationship.
Philly would've loved him if he had been a Sixer — especially if he helped secure an NBA championship that has eluded the franchise for 33 years (he won back-to-back titles with the Lakers in 2009 and '10 after they traded center Shaquille O'Neal to the Heat in 2004).
 "Philly is where I grew up," Bryant told The Associated Press earlier this season.
"It's always a different emotion there than anywhere else."
 In light of Bryant's impending retirement, here are some of my favorite Kobe moments:
 •watching him play 1-on-1 with the Sixers' Vernon Maxwell at St. Joseph's University as a high school junior and hold his own;
 •shaking his head after hitting his first jumper against Chester in the 1994-95 District One title game as if to say "you can't stop me" en route to a 77-50 thrashing to the deeper Clippers at Villanova during his junior year;
 •winning the PIAA state title as a senior;
 •becoming the first high school guard to be picked in the draft when he went No.
13 overall to the Charlotte Hornets (12 spots after the Sixers took Allen Iverson), then demanding a trade and being sent to the Lakers for Vlade Divac;
 •the "cut their hearts out" comment after the upstart Sixers shocked the loaded Lakers in Game 1 of the NBA Finals at the Staples Center and nearly won Game 2 in LaLa Land;
 •walking up to the podium for media interviews after the clinching Game 5 of the Finals apparently unaware that Iverson was waiting to speak on the other side (not surprisingly, Iverson left without talking);
 •the unmerciful booing at the 2002 All-Star Game in Philly, including when he accepted the MVP trophy for scoring 31 points in the Western Conference's 15-point victory eight months after being named Finals MVP at the Wells Fargo Center.
"I know they're booing, but nonetheless it feels good to come home and play in front of the home crowd," he said at the time.
"Even though the reception isn't that warm, I still enjoy coming back."
 While critics hard on Kobe being a selfish volume shooter, what I liked the most about Bryant was he always wanted the ball with the game on the line.
He didn't always make it, but he sure was willing to take the shot.
 Perhaps part of the fans' issue with Bryant is that some believe if the Sixers had drafted him in 1996, they would've won at least one NBA championship..
