NBC Sports | Live Streams, Video, News, Schedules, Scores and more


          One of the biggest games of this college football season will not include the 
likely No.
1 overall pick in the 2021 NFL Draft.


          Martinsville Xfinity race: Harrison Burton won his second race in a row, 
while Austin Cindric, Justin Allgaier and Justin Haley advanced to the title 
race.


          Fron goal scoring to goaltending these five teams still have some big 
questions to answer this offseason.

      Diogo Jota stunned the Hammers in the closing minutes to give Liverpool a 
comeback win at Anfield.

      Dallas DE DeMarcus Lawrence joins Liam McHugh to discuss the Cowboys' 
struggles to kick off 2020, the current message and morale in the locker room 
and his faith in Ben DiNucci as he steps into the role of a starter.

      Martinsville Xfinity race: Harrison Burton won his second race in a row, 
while Austin Cindric, Justin Allgaier and Justin Haley advanced to the title 
race.

      Burnley against Chelsea was extremely telling when it came to the gulf in 
class between the two teams, as an injury to Pulisic saw his replacement run 
riot.

      Notre Dame's final tuneup for its game of the year should turn into a rout of 
Georgia Tech this afternoon, led by the Irish defense like usual.

      Fans will debate Jimmie Johnson's place on some imprecise ranking of the best 
ever, but rest assured: There is a NASCAR short list, and he’s on it 
forever.

      Don't miss Rodney Harrison and Jac Collinsworth on the new Peacock original, 
Safety Blitz, every Monday from 6-7pm ET.

      Michael Smith and Michael Holley discuss the latest in sports, culture and 
more in their new show on Peacock, every weekday from 3 to 5 p.m.
ET.

      Why not give Roope Hintz and Denis Gurianov chances to the prove they can 
step up in his possible absence?

      The sides are negotiating the start date of next season, the number of games, 
and player salary escrow amounts, plus more.

      The beat up Cowboys hit the road to face an Eagles team that is coming off of 
a dramatic win over the Giants in Week 7.

      Why did the 5-2 Buccaneers add Antonio Brown?
Peter King gets the answer from 
Bruce Arians and determines whether it'll all work in Tampa Bay.

      Alex Palou will be joining Chip Ganassi Racing next year as the team expands 
back to four cars for the 2021 IndyCar season.

      Wyndham Clark and Ryan Armour survived ferocious wind Friday in the Bermuda 
Championship to share the lead going into a weekend.

      Chris Simms joins Brother from Another to whip around the biggest topics in 
the NFL, from Tom Brady's hot streak to the upcoming trade deadline and 
draft.

      Olivia Smoliga gives On Her Turf a behind-the-scenes look at what it is like 
to compete in the ISL and recaps the first two matches of the season.
It's a crucial game on the path to NFC East supremacy.
Who takes this big-time SNF showdown?NBC Sports | @lowes
