Kobe Bryant Shaquille O’Neal feud: how it began
KOBE Bryant and Shaquille O’Neal were never exactly friends, but now the turning point in their relationship has been pinpointed.
How the Shaquille O’Neal-Kobe Byrant feud began.Source:AFP
KOBE Bryant and Shaquille O’Neal were never exactly friends, but the turning point in their relationship has been reported to be when the pair publicly disagreed over how O’Neal handled a toe injury heading into the 2002-03 season.
With the Lakers coming off three consecutive championships, O’Neal decided to rest on “company time”, which really bothered Bryant.
Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant will never get along.Source:News Limited
Bryant’s maniacal work ethic and domineering personality with his teammates is well documented, and it annoyed him that he was viewed as the Robin to O’Neal’s Batman.
To combat this perception, Bryant — who was signed to Adidas at the time — told his teammates that he would give them free gear if they passed him the ball more than they passed to O’Neal, according to former teammate Robert Horry (via Mark Medina of the LA Daily News):
Robert Horry said Kobe told teammates when Shaq was injured in 02-03 season that he'd give his teammates Adidas gear if he kept getting ball
It worked.
Bryant averaged 5.4 more field-goal attempts than O’Neal, which was the largest difference at the time (Bryant’s previous high was 3.0 more than O’Neal in 2000-01).
Here’s the kicker.
Despite his teammates keeping up their end of the bargain, Horry said Bryant never gave them the gear he promised, and has continued to make excuses for it:
Horry said Kobe still hasn't given teammates gear.
Kobe said he doesn't owe anything since he switched to Nike
Does this actually surprise anyone?
Bryant is one of the fiercest competitors in NBA history, and would likely commit a crime against his own family to win another championship.
Lying to his teammates to get more shots up?
No big deal.
Light work.
However, with a lifetime supply of Nike surely awaiting him, the least Bryant could do is finally own up to his promise and thank his teammates with some free swag.
The Black Mamba can hold a grudge.Source:AP
A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites.
Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out.
Nationwide News Pty Limited Copyright © 2020.
All times AEDT (GMT +11).
Powered by WordPress.com VIP
