Lakers Trudge On as Bryant Recovers From Surgery - The New York Times
Advertisement
Supported by
By Scott Cacciola
LOS ANGELES — Kobe Bryant is no stranger to social media.
In recent months, he has treated his millions of followers on Twitter and Facebook to pictures of his breakfast.
He has espoused the virtues of sleep aids.
He has shared inspirational quotations.
And, in a nod to the all-consuming commerce of his chosen profession, he has cited his various sponsors, which include watchmakers, apparel companies and an airline based in Turkey.
Since Friday, however, when he ruptured his left Achilles’ tendon in the Los Angeles Lakers’ victory over the Golden State Warriors, Bryant has taken online transparency to new heights, guiding the world on a real-time tour of a career in jeopardy, going so far as to post a late-night rant in the immediate wake of his injury.
On Sunday, in lieu of being on the court for the Lakers’ 91-86 victory over the San Antonio Spurs at Staples Center, Bryant was back online, a day removed from season-ending surgery, sharing a headline that had run Sunday in The Los Angeles Times.
It read, in part, that Bryant’s “career may never be the same.”
Bryant wrote on Facebook, “I’m keeping track of all doubters and haters.”
Having overshadowed the Lakers’ playoff chase, at least momentarily, Bryant left his teammates to fend for themselves against San Antonio, and they cobbled together a tenacious effort.
With Dwight Howard (26 points and 17 rebounds) now operating as the focal point, the Lakers turned to lesser lights like Steve Blake, who started in place of the injured Steve Nash and scored 23 points.
It was enough to overcome the Spurs’ Tim Duncan, who finished with 23 points and 10 rebounds.
The win gave the Lakers (44-37) a one-and-a-half game lead over the Utah Jazz for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Western Conference.
The Lakers’ regular-season finale is Wednesday against the Houston Rockets.
The pregame festivities felt odd without Bryant, the face of the franchise for most of his 17 seasons with the team.
For his teammates, there was no time for reflection or self-doubt, not with the postseason on the line.
That the Lakers are even in contention was a function of Bryant being Bryant for so much of the season, even at 34.
He had overcome the corrosive effects of a long career, all those hard fouls absorbed and tumbles taken.
He posted his usual numbers, averaging 27.3 points, 46.3-percent shooting, 5.6 rebounds and 6 assists, but it was more the way he had done it, lifting a dysfunctional operation (the Lakers were 17-25 in late January) into a playoff contender by season’s end.
It was perhaps some of the finest work of his career, and now it remains unfinished.
He faces a long road to recovery.
The Lakers have pegged his return at six to nine months, though it already seems clear that Bryant is searching for new sources of motivation.
When Bryant played for the United States at the London Olympics last summer, the basketball-watching world caught a glimpse of what was ahead.
Nobody can play at an elite level forever, not even Bryant.
On a team laden with younger superstars — whose celebrity was rivaling, if not surpassing, his own — Bryant actually looked content with a more subdued role.
He did not take many shots.
He did not challenge many defenders.
Instead, he deferred to  Kevin Durant and LeBron James.
Bryant visited other Olympic venues (cycling was a favorite) and talked to fans, coaches, reporters — anyone who would listen — knowing full well that the Olympics were something of a valedictory for him.
It was, he said, his final appearance in international competition.
Yet the old, familiar Bryant was still bubbling at the surface, offering flashes of what was — and what still could be.
Such was the case in the quarterfinals, with Bryant laboring through a poor performance.
At halftime, his United States teammate Carmelo Anthony nudged him to play better, ever so gently.
It was enough to spark the fuse.
Bryant proceeded to eviscerate a group of convivial Australians in the second half, sinking four 3-pointers in 66 seconds on his way to 20 points in the game.
“Just searching for something to get me going, searching for something to kind of activate the Black Mamba,” Bryant, referring to his nickname, said at the time.
Bryant, who went on to win the gold medal with his American teammates, suddenly finds himself on the ropes once again, except now his career is at stake.
For a man who feasts on all the so-called doubters and haters, yet another challenge awaits.
Advertisement
