To the End, Kobe Bryant Is a Shooting Guard, Hot or Cold - The New York Times
Advertisement
Supported by
Keeping Score
By Benjamin Hoffman
Being a prolific outside shooter in the N.B.A.
requires an almost comical amount of optimism.
A player has to accept that more than half of his shots will miss but has to retain the confidence to thrust the ball toward the rim every time he has the chance.
That attitude is reflected in the game’s box scores.
There is a category for field goals made, and one for field goals attempted, but one must do the arithmetic to determine the number of shots each player missed.
The implication is that everyone knows that some shots are not going to fall, and that the focus should be on the shots that went in.
The mind-set of shooters seems to range from a realistic belief that the benefits of shooting outweigh the negatives to a childlike insistence that taking a shot is always the right move.
Players occasionally reach a point of absurdity in their optimism, like J. R. Smith’s defense of his 3-point attempt in the closing seconds of the Knicks’ loss to Orlando on Wednesday, when his team was down by 2 points and Carmelo Anthony appeared to be open.
“I think it was the right shot,” Smith said after it failed to hit the rim.
“I just didn’t make it.”
The day before Smith’s ill-advised attempt, the failures that players are so careful to avoid discussing took center stage as Kobe Bryant missed the 13,418th shot of his career, breaking John Havlicek’s record.
It might seem a dubious achievement, but it was hardly an indictment of Bryant, because the list of career leaders in missed shots is a who’s who of great players.
Behind Bryant and Havlicek are Elvin Hayes, Karl Malone, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Michael Jordan.
Of the 21 players to miss 10,000 shots in their careers, only seven are not in the Hall of Fame, and each of those players has a realistic chance of eventual induction.
Demonstrating that the number of missed shots does not correlate with the ability to shoot, the player with the fewest misses among the 40 most prolific career shooters is Shaquille O’Neal, Bryant’s former teammate, who had an effective range of 0 feet but missed only 8,127 shots in 19,457 attempts, because he never ventured far from the rim.
If their missed free throws were included, however, the gap between O’Neal and Bryant would shrink.
Bryant, who rarely shows a sense of humor about himself, was hardly in the mood to celebrate his failure, even though there is no shame in being a player who is good enough to have been allowed to miss so many shots.
“Well, I’m a shooting guard that’s played 19 years,” Bryant said of setting the record.
For Bryant, shooting and missing is just part of the job.
A five-time N.B.A.
champion often seen as this generation’s version of Jordan, he has occasionally put up embarrassing stat lines while trying to find a rhythm.
In a recent article in Sports Illustrated, Gotham Chopra, the director of a coming documentary on Bryant, recounted telling Bryant that Deron Williams of the Nets had shot 0 for 9 from the field in a game.
Bryant’s reaction shed a great deal of light on his approach to the game.
“I would go 0 for 30 before I would go 0 for 9; 0 for 9 means you beat yourself, you psyched yourself out of the game,” Chopra recalled Bryant saying.
Bryant has never gone 0 for 30, but in a loss to the Clippers in 2002 he missed 30 shots, going 17 for 47 from the field.
Long before Bryant was born, the Boston Celtics’ Bob Cousy, the Hall of Fame point guard, was setting an early standard for shooting a high volume regardless of accuracy.
Unquestionably a superstar, Cousy, a 37.5 percent career shooter, was the founding member of the 10,000-miss club, failing to connect on 10,300 of his 16,468 career shots.
In 1952-53 he led the league in field-goal attempts with 1,320 despite shooting just 35.2 percent, which tied for his career low in a full season.
(That season, Cousy won the first of his eight assists titles.)
Even accounting for the lower shooting standards of that era, Cousy was being a bit reckless; his standing as the 31st most accurate shooter in the game hardly justified his leading the league in attempts.
Similar to Bryant, Cousy’s shooting was not much of an issue because his team had so much success, as he teamed with Bill Russell to win championships in six of his final seven seasons with Boston.
In the twilight of his career, Bryant is putting Cousy’s 1952-53 season to shame.
Through Friday, he was leading the N.B.A.
in field-goal attempts with 210 despite shooting a career-worst 36.7 percent, which has him 122nd among 126 qualified players.
But for Bryant, shooting is, and will always be, the answer — as it was for Jordan.
“I never looked at the consequences of missing a big shot,” Jordan said of his approach to the game.
“When you think about the consequences, you always think of a negative result.”
With the record for misses out of the way, and no one likely to approach it any time soon, Bryant can go back to focusing on scoring points, and box scores everywhere will continue to show how many shots he made and how many he attempted, and fans will be left to figure the number of misses on their own.
Advertisement
