N.B.A.
FINALS: LAKERS VS. PACERS -- NOTEBOOK; Bryant Sets His Priorities - The New York Times
Advertisement
Supported by
N.B.A.
FINALS: LAKERS VS. PACERS -- NOTEBOOK
By Mike Wise
Kobe Bryant and Vince Carter will not team up and dunk on a third-world country this summer, after all.
Bryant, the Los Angeles Lakers' 21-year-old guard, said he would most likely not compete in the Olympic Games in September because of prior personal commitments -- including his wedding.
''Right now, I'm kind of leaning toward not going,'' Bryant said prior to practice today.
''There's a lot I want to do this summer.
Spend time with my family.
Get married.
Relax.
I haven't given it that much thought, really.
I'll give it some more thought after the season.''
Though Bryant had yet to be asked by USA Basketball to take the place of the injured Grant Hill, he and Eddie Jones were among the favorites to become alternates on the team.
Shaquille O'Neal also declined the Olympic team's invitation, leaving the United States team without a representative from the Lakers.
Lakers Coach Phil Jackson defended Bryant's decision.
''He's thinking how unfair it is to be challenged for his unpatriotic stance for not going to the Olympic Games,'' Jackson said.
''Kobe is getting married.
It's his personal time.
This is something that should be special for him.
They had an opportunity to get Kobe long before this.
''If they wanted him as an alternative, they probably should have asked him last summer.''
Behind Rose's Tattoo
Jalen Rose lent a little perspective to the National Basketball Association finals today.
A reporter inquired about Rose's ''Nothing to Lose'' tattoo on the inside of his left forearm.
''Did you get that because you knew you'd be down, 3-2, in Game 6 of an N.B.A.
finals?''
he was asked.
''No,'' Rose said, before explaining that he got the tattoo the summer before he attended Michigan.
''I knew what it was like to wake up and boil water to wash up and eat off a hot plate -- and then get an opportunity to go to college at the University of Michigan.
So that was an interesting dynamic in itself.''
Advertisement
