BASKETBALL: N.B.A.
ROUNDUP -- LOS ANGELES; Lakers' Bryant Signs for $71 Million - The New York Times
Advertisement
Supported by
BASKETBALL: N.B.A.
ROUNDUP -- LOS ANGELES
Kobe Bryant signed a six-year contract extension, believed to be worth nearly $71 million, with the Lakers yesterday.
Bryant, who will turn 21 in August, has one year remaining on the contract he signed before his rookie season in 1996.
The extension starts with next season, and runs through the 2004-5 season.
Once it takes effect, Bryant will be the second-highest-paid Laker, behind Shaquille O'Neal.
Bryant is expected to earn $14.62 million in the final year of the contract, and will be just 26 when it expires.
Bryant was the 13th player selected in the 1996 National Basketball Association draft, taken at age 17 by the Charlotte Hornets after attending Lower Merion (Pa.) High School.
He was then traded to the Lakers for center Vlade Divac, who is now with the Sacramento Kings.
Bryant averaged 7.6 points in 71 games for the Lakers as a rookie, and 15.4 points, 3.1 rebounds and 2.5 assists in 79 games last season, when he had the highest scoring average among nonstarters in the N.B.A.
Allen Iverson and Shareef Abdur-Rahim, two other prominent players who began their careers the same time as Bryant, both signed six-year contracts worth nearly $71 million this week with the Philadelphia 76ers and Vancouver Grizzlies, respectively.
(AP)
CLEVELAND
Ilgauskas Gets 6-Year Extension
Zydrunas Ilgauskas, a 7-foot-3-inch center from Lithuania who would have been a free agent after this season, signed a six-year contract extension with the Cavaliers.
The Cavs did not announce terms of the deal yesterday, but it was believed to be worth $70.875 million, the maximum allowed to a player entering his third season under the N.B.A.
's new collective bargaining agreement.
Ilgauskas averaged nearly 14 points last season, and the Cavs realized his potential was too much to pass up.
Ilgauskas was the Cavs' first-round pick in the 1996 draft, but sat out the '96-97 season when he broke his right foot for the second time in two years.
But bulked up to 260 pounds, Ilgauskas blossomed last season, averaging 13.9 points and 8.8 rebounds.
He was one of four Cavs chosen to the all-rookie team.
(AP)
MILWAUKEE
Del Negro To Leave Italy
The Bucks agreed to a multiyear contract with the free-agent guard Vinny Del Negro, the team said yesterday.
Del Negro, 32, will return to the United States on Monday after playing professionally in Italy for the past three weeks.
His contract allowed Del Negro, who holds dual citizenship in the United States and Italy, to return to the N.B.A.
when the 204-day lockout ended.
Del Negro averaged 9.5 points, 3.4 assists and 2.8 rebounds in 54 games with the San Antonio Spurs last season.
The 6-4 Del Negro has averaged 10.4 points, 3.4 assists and 2.6 rebounds during his eight seasons with the Spurs and Sacramento Kings.
(AP)
GREECE
Daniels To Play Overseas
The former New York playground star Lloyd Daniels has left the Continental Basketball Association's Sioux Falls Skyforce to join a team in the Greek Basketball League.
Daniels, 31, was signed by the Skyforce as a free agent on Jan. 20.
In three games he averaged 24.7 points, 9.0 rebounds and 8.7 assists.
The 6-7 swingman decided to leave the team on Thursday after being offered a contract worth $200,000 for the remaining five months of the Greek league's season, a Sioux Falls spokesman said.
He was making about $1,600 a week with Sioux Falls, the team said.
(Bloomberg News)
Advertisement
