Kobe Bryant Is Nearly an Equal of Michael Jordan, Except in Fan Adoration - The New York Times
Advertisement
Supported by
Keeping Score
By Benjamin Hoffman
Kobe Bryant is one of the most talented players to grace an N.B.A.
court, but he has often undercut his greatness with distractions.
In another era, he would have been allowed to focus on basketball and would have been praised for his otherworldly game.
But with today’s 24-hour news cycle, he has spent much of his career answering for his personality and his off-court actions.
Entering Sunday’s game against Minnesota, Bryant has 32,284 points, 8 behind Michael Jordan for third place on the career scoring list.
But in terms of fan adoration, he will never catch Jordan, whose game most resembles his, possibly because we know too much about him.
An example of how Bryant tends to get into his own way happened in the past week.
His focus could have been the pursuit of Jordan, but instead Bryant had to answer questions about a tirade during practice in which he repeatedly said his teammates were “soft like Charmin” among a host of expletives and other insults.
It did not matter that he was right, that his teammates had played poorly all season.
It did not matter that he was praised by Nick Young, one player he had vocally attacked, for bringing some life to the team.
It did not matter that Jordan similarly berated teammates, sometimes throwing punches and deflating egos.
Largely protected by the news media, Jordan was described as determined and relentless.
Bryant has been labeled selfish and abusive.
After a surprising road victory in San Antonio on Friday night, Bryant was quick to say that his style has led to plenty of success over the years.
“Look, we can all criticize my style of leadership all day long,” Bryant, 36, said.
“You can sit there, and it’s uncomfortable, it’s whatever, but I’ve been doing that since high school.
We play this game to win championships, and I have five of them.”
The game-winner was hit by Young, a rambunctious player Bryant has seemingly taken under his wing.
In the practice that made headlines, Young talked back to Bryant, and continued to do so after his 29-point effort in Friday’s overtime victory.
“When I’m out there, I don’t play like Charmin,” Young said.
“I like Scott Tissue.
It’s a little rougher.”
Bryant has earned his reputation by belittling his coaches, failing to get along with Shaquille O’Neal, showing a somewhat obtuse shot selection and being accused of sexual assault, charges that were dropped in 2004.
But those who contend he has fallen far short of Jordan on the court may want to take a second look at the numbers.
Jordan has clear advantages over Bryant in terms of career totals or even per-game averages.
In nearly 200 fewer games, on a per-game basis, Jordan had more points, more rebounds, more assists, more steals, more blocks, a higher field-goal percentage and fewer turnovers.
But adjusted to a 36-minute pace to negate the 5,000-plus-minute disparity in playing time, Bryant and Jordan are far more similar.
Jordan averaged 28.1 points per 36 minutes, and Bryant has averaged 25.1.
But in other categories, Jordan has a smaller advantage: rebounds (5.9 to 5.2); assists (4.9 to 4.7); steals (2.2 to 1.4); blocks (0.8 to 0.5).
Efficiency is a word rarely associated with Bryant.
But he played in an era with far more 3-pointers — he has 1,673 to Jordan’s 581 — so his True Shooting Percentage, an advanced statistic accounting for the added value of the 3-point shot as well as free throws, is .554, which is closer to Jordan’s .569 than some would assume.
Bryant has been accused of being a ball hog, and the numbers back that up.
His Usage Rate, a statistic that determines the percentage of a team’s plays involving an individual, is a whopping 31.8 percent.
Jordan’s was 33.3 percent.
Passing Jordan on the career scoring list will probably be the last great accomplishment of Bryant’s career.
He trails Karl Malone by more than 4,000 points for second place on the list and would need at least two seasons to get there.
Having missed significant time to injury in the last few seasons, and unable to practice regularly because of his age, Bryant is not expected to stick around that long.
With the Lakers in rebuilding mode, a sixth championship also seems out of the question.
If he is truly on his way out, he will retire as perhaps the league’s second-greatest wing behind Jordan.
But Bryant being Bryant, he will probably make a few more headlines before he calls it a career.
They are just not likely to involve basketball.
Advertisement
