Kobe Bryant injury: Los Angeles Lakers G has torn rotator cuff - Sports Illustrated
An MRI on Los Angeles Lakers guard Kobe Bryant's right shoulder Thursday revealed a torn rotator cuff, the team announced.
Bryant was injured in the third quarter of the Lakers' 96-80 road loss against the New Orleans Pelicans on Wednesday after going for a dunk.
He left the game but returned in the fourth quarter.
Bryant will fly back to Los Angeles to be examined by team doctors.
An update on his condition is expected Friday, the team said.
“I’ve played with a torn labrum, so I’m not too concerned," Bryant said after Wednesday's game, according to the Los Angeles Times.
"I'm not too concerned about it.
We make a lot of it, but the reality is I'm doing some pretty phenomenal things in 30 minutes [a game]."
• GOLLIVER: Biggest All-Star Game snubs | Watch: Westbrook's OT winner
Bryant said he couldn't figure out what made his shoulder hurt but attempted to shoot jumpers with his left hand.
"I felt fine when I went up, didn't feel too good when I came down," he said.
Bryant is averaging 22.3 points, 5.7 rebounds and 5.6 assists this season for the Lakers (12-31), who have lost six games in a row.
- Scooby Axson
After Clemson's win over Boston College, Dabo Swinney said Lawrence will be out against Notre Dame due to COVID-19.
Wilder also accused Fury of cheating in their December 2018 draw and their February rematch.
Michigan State took back the Paul Bunyan trophy with a 27-24 win over No.
13 ranked Michigan.
Rocky Lombardi threw for 323 yards and 3 touchdowns as the 24-point underdogs pulled off the upset in the Big House.
...read more
The Raiders were the first team in Allegiant Stadium, but UNLV were the first to have fans.
The Spartans' victory makes Mel Tucker only the program's second coach to win his debut vs. Michigan.
Bostic was ejected from last week's game after he hit Dalton in the head as the Cowboys QB was sliding to the turf.
Ohio State and Penn State will meet in a Big Ten clash at Beaver Stadium on Saturday night.
