2020 NBA Draft: Who will the Lakers pick?
- Silver Screen and Roll
Filed under:
The Lakers are being connected to a ton of guards in the 2020 NBA Draft.
The NBA Draft is currently set for Wednesday, Nov. 18 at 4:00 p.m. PT, and the Los Angeles Lakers will have the No.
28 pick.
With a good chunk of their roster set to test free agency, if they don’t trade their selection in search of more veteran help — a real possibility, one would assume — they also seem set to look hard at a lot of guards to restock their backcourt and replenish their corp of young talent.
So far, the names linked to them have followed that trend, with TCU guard Desmond Bane the one player (as of this article’s original publishing) to confirm he’s interviewed with Assistant GM and Director of Scouting Jesse Buss, and the Lakers reportedly being one of several organizations to be high on Stanford guard Tyrell Terry, who is rising up boards and has broken records for his performance on the IQ tests teams administer.
It’s easy to see why.
Rajon Rondo is expected to enter free agency and is already generating interest.
Kentavious Caldwell-Pope is similarly projected to test the market, and might have a high price tag.
Avery Bradley could also theoretically opt out of his deal — even if he’s not expected to — and Quinn Cook only has $1 million of his $3 million salary for next season guaranteed, meaning he could find himself used as a trade asset or cut to create a roster spot.
All of that potential turnover in the backcourt is probably why mock drafts are persistently linking the Lakers to guards in the draft, including SB Nation’s own Ricky O’Donnell.
Again, this all depends on if the Lakers actually keep this pick, or use it in a deal since it’s one of their best trade assets, but until the draft takes place, we will be keeping track of everyone the team is linked to below, so bookmark this page and check back here for the latest updates.
For more draft updates and Lakers talk, subscribe to the Silver Screen and Roll podcast feed on iTunes, Spotify, Stitcher or Google Podcasts.
The Lakers were out in full force to watch Anthony Edwards and Tyrese Maxey work out ahead of the Nov. 18 Draft, but there might be a reason besides the team’s interest.
The 20-year-old led the Pac-12 in 3-point percentage as a freshman.
Could TCU guard Desmond Bane be the choice for the Lakers with the 28th pick in the 2020 NBA Draft?
There are plenty of reasons to think the team may like him.
With Kentavious Caldwell-Pope and Rajon Rondo set to hit free agency, the Lakers might need to replenish their guard depth through the 2020 NBA draft.
Cassius Winston could be an elite scorer at the next level if he overcomes his own physical hurdles.
