Kobe Bryant and USA Basketball - Whatever It Takes | Sporting News
Releasing a video across his social channels, Kobe Bryant has announced that he is the Global Ambassador for the FIBA Basketball World Cup taking place in China in September, 2019.
World, I've been watching!
You want the #FIBAWC 🏆?
Come and get it in China.
#MambaMentality pic.twitter.com/QP4opTMeYi
Directly calling out many of the countries competing in the tournament, Bryant has challenged teams and individuals to assert themselves against their global competition.
Bryant’s stature as an athlete in China and elsewhere in the world, combined with his accomplishments as a representative of USA Basketball means he is uniquely positioned to speak about winning on the international stage.
For USA Basketball fans it can be easy to overlook the period of (relative) turbulence that the national team went through prior to Bryant’s 26-0 tenure with the team.




https://images.daznservices.com/di/library/sporting_news/3a/39/kobe-bryant-usa-basketball-fiba_1kfqayl60gb2p17z13zo3nmgll.jpg?t=-1000425034&amp;w=500&amp;quality=80
We are now ten years removed from the ‘Redeem Team’ – the 2008 roster for the Beijing Olympics that was tasked with restoring the pride of USA basketball on the world stage.
The ‘Redeem Team’ moniker was obviously a play on the name given to the team that played in the 1992 Barcelona Olympics – The Dream Team.
The collection of basketball superstars that made up that team in 1992 (following the Olympic rules changing to allow professional athletes to compete) resembled superheroes in how easily they dismantled the best players that the rest of the world could muster.
The roster was stacked with players considered among the absolute best of all-time in their respective positions, including His Airness himself, Michael Jordan.
It’s often forgotten however that much-like the ‘Redeem Team’, USA Basketball in 1992 was looking to overcome a (relatively) poor finish (Bronze) in 1988.
For a number of international competitions following that 1992 Olympic Games, the USA was able to follow this simple formula.
Take All Star-calibre players from the NBA and win games and tournaments simply through having superior talent.
However, by the time the 2008 Olympics and the ‘Redeem Team’ rolled around, the unthinkable had happened.
Following an explosion in the popularity of basketball around the world, the talent gap between the USA and their competitors had significantly closed.
The ‘Dream Team’ tag no longer felt appropriate.
In the 2004 Olympics in Athens, the USA lost to both Puerto Rico and Lithuania in their group games.
Wins over Greece, Australia and Angola meant that the team finished the group stage with a 3-2 record.
After beating a talented Spain team in the quarter final, many would have believed the team had put those initial losses behind them.
Unfortunately for that team however, they ran up against a Manu Ginobili-inspired Argentina, losing in the semi-final by 8 points.
Team USA had to be content with a bronze medal, beating Lithuania in the third place game.
Three losses in a single tournament.
This team boasted Tim Duncan, LeBron James, Dwayne Wade, Carmelo Anthony, Allen Iverson, Amar’e Stoudemire, Shawn Marion and a collection of other NBA All Stars.
Many commentators were convinced that the superstar calibre talent and leadership on this roster were undermined by the chemistry issues and disruption caused by (the often targeted) names of Iverson and Marbury, as well as the younger members of the team.




https://images.daznservices.com/di/library/sporting_news/d7/5a/allen-iverson-stephon-marbury-usa-basketball-fiba_dsqh7a9i3zo713du9io2ovs9w.jpg?t=-1000324546&amp;w=500&amp;quality=80
The roster confirmed for the 2006 FIBA Basketball World Cup seemed to take this into account, featuring high ‘character’ players such as Shane Battier, Kirk Hinrich, Elton Brand and Antawn Jamison.
These players backed up the superstars in LeBron James, Dwayne Wade, Carmelo Anthony, Chris Paul, Chris Bosh and a young Dwight Howard.
If there were any lingering doubts, they likely would have been squashed by the opening group game, in which the USA beat the same Puerto Rico that had shocked them at the Olympics two years previously.
Consecutive wins over China, Slovenia, Italy and Senegal pointed towards the potential for a runaway US juggernaut through the competition.
Decisive victories over Australia and a Dirk Nowitzki-led Germany would have furthered the team’s confidence before another result that shocked the world.
In the semi-final round Greece played what amounted to a near-perfect game to defeat USA 101-95.
Whilst the team may have found some level of redemption in defeating Argentina in the third-place matchup, watching Spain win the tournament served as further evidence that USA basketball was looking for answers when compared to the lofty standards it had established.
This was no 2004 of course, losing just a single game, but there was clearly something, or perhaps someONE missing from the formula.
Jerry Colangelo, the President of USA Basketball, beginning in 2005 had implemented a complete overhaul of the how the national team functioned.
The idea was to demand three year commitments from players, not only to ensure continuity but to reinforce what a big commitment, what a privilege and what an opportunity it is to be asked to represent one’s country.
The introduction of Coach Mike Krzyzewski was a key strategic decision.
A five-year US Army veteran is no stranger to the pride in serving one’s country.
Not often discussed, ‘Coach K’ also had a powerful motivation in wanting to chase victories for USA Basketball.
He served as Head Coach of the 1990 USA team in the FIBA Basketball World Cup that finished 3rd despite only fielding NCAA players.
He also served as an Assistant Coach at the 1984, and 1992 Olympics, as well as the 1992 FIBA Americup.
Krzyzewski was already incredibly experienced in international play.




https://images.daznservices.com/di/library/sporting_news/8f/a6/mike-krzyzewski-kobe-bryant-usa-basketball_1061buqiw9q1u17x4alzdxlqw3.jpg?t=-1000223610&amp;w=500&amp;quality=80
So in 2006, the team structure, the coach and the roster all seemed to be good.
But there was still something missing - particularly in comparison to that 1992 Dream Team.
Not only in terms of the ‘killer instinct’ in how they approached games, but the intangible star power that followed those players in Barcelona.
The likes of Magic Johnson and Charles Barkley travelling around Barcelona were afforded the level of security normally associated only with rock stars.
Having to withdraw through injury in 2006, there was a notable omission from that FIBA Basketball World Cup roster.
An omission who had the force of will to simply not allow his country to lose.
An omission with an infectious and unparalleled work ethic.
An omission who was coming off scoring 81 points individually against the Toronto Raptors...
The son of an overseas professional basketball player, the multilingual Kobe Bryant was exposed in early childhood to international basketball.
This savviness made him the perfect conduit through which his USA teams could prepare for the nuances and rule differences from NBA basketball that opponents would likely look to exploit.
But it wasn’t only his  experience with basketball overseas that left an impression on his teammates.
What would later became known as the ‘Mamba Mentality’ was evident even from his very first moments with the team.
Speaking of Kobe, Chris Bosh perhaps summed it up, saying “I thought I was working hard…” “Now I have to get back into the gym.” Bryant’s early Morning workouts became legendary among his teammates and the media.
The whispers that came out of the camps of his USA teammates turning up to the gym to discover a sweat-laden Bryant, having already worked out alone for hours only furthered the Bryant mystique.
He was a player that despite his superstardom, had always been closer to an individual both on and off the floor than just another part of the NBA crowd.
To a younger generation of superstar players that had formed close friendships and a sense of community, this was the first time that many of them were able to spend any significant time around Bryant.
The extent to which Bryant influenced these elite players was clear.
Kevin Durant said of Kobe:
“His work ethic, approach and how he appreciates the game is infectious...“ “He’s someone who loves to play so much.
He’s competitive when he steps in between those lines.
He wants perfection.”
Discussing Kobe’s work ethic, Carlos Boozer, who would later become a teammate of Bryants in Los Angeles said “We all clung to it… It soon became our workout, not just his workout.” Whilst initially surprised to learn of Bryant’s extra workouts, the other players were soon joining him for the extra reps and trying to match his workload.
Kobe’s influence didn’t just surround the team’s worth ethic in practice and in preparing for games either.
It was him that set the tone on the floor.
The first competition in which Kobe would represent USA Basketball was the 2007 FIBA Americup.
Assistant Coach Jim Boeheim noted that in the first scrimmage “He was pressing everybody… He’s just jumping over guys screaming, going after everybody and getting everybody to do that too.
That set the tone the first day.”
This steeliness carried over to the first game of the tournament.
Kobe forced a turnover from Venezuela’s Greivis Vasquez and dove on the loose ball.
He then stole the next pass and finished in transition.
Coach K later replayed the video of the sequence as an example for the other players to follow.
Just like that, from a team that had experienced elimination from its two previous tournaments, Bryant added a swagger to the team and a refusal to be outcompete by any team they played.
All of a sudden, the USA felt like a team that was simply unassailable again.
USA Basketball went 10-0 in the tournament, with an average margin of victory of 36 points.
Capturing the intensity with which Bryant approached the games, he averaged 1.6 steals per game, more than anyone else in the tournament playing less than 25 minutes per game.
He also saved some of his best play for the games against rivals, Argentina.
Bryant put a USA Basketball career high 27 points against them in the quarter finals.
He followed that up in the final (also against Argentina), by becoming the USA’s primary playmaker, dishing 8 assists.
.
@kobebryant has been named the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 global ambassador.
🏀 #FIBAWC pic.twitter.com/j1QEYqT8kw
The pattern was much the same in the 2008 Olympics.
Bryant played the leader and facilitator to his younger teammates, stepping up when his team needed it most.
In the fourth quarter of the Gold Medal game against Spain, the USA was holding a two point lead with eight minutes remaining.
Stepping forward as the star among stars, Kobe Bryant took over the game.
13 points, three assists and two crucial blocks from Bryant in that fourth quarter helped USA basketball secure a 118-107 victory in what is considered one of the best international basketball games of all time.
Kobe finished as the only USA player to break 20 points in multiple games and he also led the team with his 17 three point shots made in the tournament.
2009 and 2010 saw Kobe capture two more NBA titles, as well as two Finals MVPs before he would represent USA Basketball once more at the 2012 Olympics in London.
Now 34 years old, Bryant was able to pass more responsibility to LeBron James, Kevin Durant and Carmelo Anthony who had entered the primes of their respective careers.
Bryant still had several signature performances, including a 20 point second-half explosion against Australia in the semi-final that included four consecutive three point shots.
The six three point shots he made in that game overall was his career high for USA Basketball.
Bryant caught fire from three point range in this tournament, making at least three shots from behind the arc in each of the last three games of the London Olympics.
This was the only time in international play he achieved this in three consecutive games.




https://images.daznservices.com/di/library/sporting_news/5c/82/kobe-bryant-spain-usa-basketball-fiba_11m01vhyj2fcxzjcm3l99ulcq.jpg?t=-1000138610&amp;w=500&amp;quality=80
Kobe also scored 17 in the final game, which saw the US defeat Spain once more to clinch the Gold Medal.
After the Gold Medal encounter with Spain, Bryant said:
“It’s very emotional.
You kind of think back on the journey, being here for your last gold medal, wearing USA on your chest, and it’s very emotional.
"“You realize how fleeting time is, and it brings me great joy to be standing here at this point of my career.
It will be exciting to look back at all the memories, this being one of them.”
So Kobe Bryant entered a USA Basketball team that by its own incredible standards, was at its lowest point in recent memory.
He helped the team go 26-0 in the games in which he played, capturing a FIBA Americup and two Olympic Gold Medals along the way.
Perhaps the soundbite that most succinctly captures what Kobe Bryant meant to USA Basketball during his time with the international team however actually came right at the beginning of his decision to represent his country.
Knowing Bryant as a prolific scorer, and his reputation as someone that took offensive challenges personally, Jerry Colangelo said to Bryant:
“What if I said to you, I want you to be a distributor and not a scorer?”
Bryant didn’t hesitate.
Perhaps already envisioning the leadership he would have to show, the work ethic he would have to instil in his teammates and the unrelenting style of play he would bring to the floor, Bryant made a promise.
“I’ll do whatever it takes”.
