USATODAY.com - Shaq, Kobe still main keys to Lakers' fortunes
Malone and Payton, perennial All-Stars who came to Los Angeles to win a title, will sit this one out.
In many ways it seems fitting because they knew when they signed with "The Lake Show" they would take a back seat to O'Neal and Bryant.
Remember the high-water mark of the Lakers' championship three-peat?
That would be the playoffs of 2001, when the Lakers steamrolled through the postseason with a 15-1 record, winning their second of three consecutive titles, playing with a chemistry between O'Neal and Bryant unmatched before or since.
Remember?
"My idol," O'Neal called Bryant.
"The best player in the league — by far."
Remember?
"The combination of the two of them is all that I envisioned that it could be," said Lakers coach Phil Jackson, who even discussed how, in some ways, Bryant was a better all-around player than Michael Jordan.
The reason for the trip down Lakers memory lane is that the happy ending in 2001 came only after the team endured and overcame the same sort of personal and physical problems involving O'Neal and Bryant that they're going through now at the All-Star break.
In January of that 2000-01 season, O'Neal and Bryant bared their egos and feuded over who should be the focus of the Lakers offense.
Near the end of that regular season, Bryant missed 10 consecutive games with ankle injuries, and his teammates and Jackson wondered how long it would take for him to be 100% healthy and what sort of dynamics he'd bring with him when he returned.
That is, would he pass the ball?
Back then things turned out beautifully.
Bryant returned with four regular-season games left, but the team clicked immediately.
Bryant stressed getting his teammates involved and feeding O'Neal in the post, and the Lakers won 19 of their last 20 games, including Western Conference sweeps of Portland, Sacramento and San Antonio and a 4-1 Finals victory against Philadelphia.
Three years later the Lakers find themselves in familiar territory.
In the offseason Bryant was charged with sexual assault, and his ongoing legal case in Colorado remains a distraction.
Just before opening night the Shaq-Kobe wars heated up again, complete with insults and name-calling.
The Lakers got through that, though, and started off 18-3, the league's best record at the time.
But injuries that have sidelined Malone since Dec. 23 and have caused O'Neal and Bryant to miss a combined 26 games threaten to derail the expected title run.
Now, as teams begin to think about playoff readiness, the Lakers hold their breath about what freak injury might occur.
They're looking ahead to trying to get all their players in the lineup at the same time and how their game might look at that point.
Though Malone, expected back in mid-March, and Payton have important roles, the biggest factor, as it was in 2001, is how O'Neal and Bryant will play together.
That is, will they share and be nice?
Jackson has said as much and is growing a little worried about the limited number of times Bryant and O'Neal have been on the court together lately.
Still, Jackson being Jackson, he is not panicking.
"I'm not like that," he says.
"I'm not ruing my fortune.
I think we're going to be fine.
We just have to survive this optimistically, go through this and keep right with ourselves and not lose our patience."
