USATODAY.com - Bryant continues to hold court
Bryant continues to hold court
By David Leon Moore, USA TODAY
LOS ANGELES — Kobe Bryant was just a 17-year-old kid 
  when he arrived in Los Angeles, a city that couldn't wait for him to grow up 
  and just maybe help Shaquille O'Neal forge another Lakers dynasty.
Now Bryant 
  is all of 23 years old, and what's that on his fingers?
Right, two championship 
  rings, with perhaps a third one on the way next month.
If Bryant didn't play 
  another game in L.A. — though he figures to play many, many more — 
  the City of Angels would sing his praises for a long time.
At Lower Merion High 
  School in Ardmore, Pa., they know the feeling.
In Bryant's freshman season at 
  the school, the team was a pushover.
His senior year — 1996 — the 
  Aces were state champions.
"That's my most lasting memory from my high school career 
  — winning the state championship," Bryant says.
"The high school hadn't 
  won it in over 50 years.
So it was big, really big, especially going from 4-20 
  my freshman year to winning the state title."
The turnaround he led at Lower Merion brought attention.
As did the fact that he was the son of Joe "Jelly Bean" Bryant, who played eight 
  seasons in the NBA and later in Italy, where Kobe spent eight years of his childhood.
Mostly, though, what caused all the buzz was Bryant's jaw-dropping skills.
"A 
  complete player who dominates," said his high school coach, Gregg Downer.
As a 6-6, 190-pounder his senior year, he averaged 30.8 
  points, 12 rebounds, 6.5 assists and 3.8 blocked shots in leading the Aces to 
  a 31-3 record.
Because of his spectacular ability and domination at Lower Merion, 
  and partly because of all he has done since then in a six-year NBA career, Bryant 
  has been chosen as the most outstanding boys high school player of the past 
  20 years.
Toward the end of his eventful senior season in high school, 
  word began to spread Bryant was considering the route taken a year earlier by 
  Kevin Garnett — straight from high school to the NBA.
He did, was selected 
  13th by the Charlotte Hornets and traded to the Lakers for center Vlade Divac, 
  a move that cleared the way for the Lakers to sign O'Neal.
Those moves, both 
  engineered by then-Lakers executive Jerry West, were the building blocks of 
  a potentially long Lakers dynasty.
Glory didn't come without adversity.
Bryant's first season 
  ended with him throwing up air balls in overtime in a season-ending playoff 
  loss in Utah.
The next two seasons, the Lakers were swept in the playoffs by 
  Utah and San Antonio.
In 2000, Bryant's fourth season, the Lakers won their 
  first NBA title since the Magic Johnson-fueled Showtime era, and Bryant's star 
  status was cemented.
Last season, however, Bryant's tendency to force his offense 
  and ignore his teammates caused a potentially serious rift between him and O'Neal.
But in the playoffs, Bryant played an unselfish and superlative brand of basketball 
  that helped the Lakers to a 15-1 waltz through the postseason and a second consecutive 
  title.
Along the way, O'Neal called Bryant the best player in 
  the league, a declaration that seemed to end the Shaq vs. Kobe chapter and the 
  beginning of something else.
Bryant says he wouldn't change the path he took, bypassing 
  college.
He admits, however, that he has daydreamed about the NCAA career he 
  might have had.
"Sometimes, out of curiosity, I think about that," he says.
"My mind starts drifting a little bit, wondering what I'd look like in a Duke 
  uniform."
No doubt Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski has thought about it, 
  too.
The Blue Devils failed to win an NCAA title during what would have been 
  Bryant's college years.
 And, as Lower Merion High School and the Lakers have found out, Kobe Bryant 
  and championships go together.
Indian River,
        Chesapeake, Va.
How the all-time All-USA boys team was chosen: USA 
  TODAY's Christopher Lawlor picked the 20th anniversary all-time team after consulting 
  with writers and high school boys basketball analysts.
Players were selected 
  primarily for their play while in high school, but college and pro performances 
  also were considered.
