USATODAY.com - Bryant's, Lakers' survival go hand in hand
Will it be enough to carry his team?
Well, a sharpie wouldn't bet against the Lakers, even though yours truly did (dinner with a Lakers fanatic and friend) when the NBA playoffs commenced.
The Lakers have survived injury, petty jealousies and assorted controversies this season.
Whether they can consistently elevate their level of play during the league's grueling playoff stretch from now until later in June is a matter of debate.
I'm wagering a big Maine lobster not.
The Lakers, of course, were constructed on the immenseness of Shaquille O'Neal, the most dominant player in the league and the bedrock on which owner Jerry Buss built three recent NBA championships.
When they obtained Karl Malone and Gary Payton in the offseason, they appeared, on paper, to have a potential dream team.
While it hasn't turned out to be a nightmare yet, neither Malone (oft-injured) nor Payton (can't find his offensive mojo in L.A.) has propelled the team to another level.
We still don't know how good this Lakers contingent can be; we probably never will know because Phil Jackson may run out of time with his chemistry experiment on the hardwoods, particularly if Bryant is serious about exploring the free agent market.
Unless he leaves Los Angeles, he will always stand in Shaq's hulking shadow.
For now, the current that surges the Lakers still belongs to the electric guard, who Doc Rivers calls the premier go-to guy in the league since that M.J. fellow departed.
Bryant demonstrated that magnificently against Portland to end the season and lift the Lakers to a No.
2 Western Conference seed.
And he's doing it again against the Houston Rockets.
It is a foregone conclusion that Los Angeles will win its first-round playoff series against the Rockets, who return home for Game 3 on Friday.
While the Lakers have trouble with speedy teams, the Rockets appear too inexperienced, most notably Yao Ming.
Playing Shaq, a formidable assignment for any mortal, the Chinese center's playoff game doesn't exactly have the ring of the Ming dynasty.
And Rockets coach Jeff Van Gundy has sounded terribly desperate in this series, telling reporters, "I don't even have to look at the calendar to know it's spring coming on summer with Phil complaining about the officiating.
It's like a rite of passage every spring."
Van Gundy went on to compare some of the media, in essence, to largemouth bass at the end of Jackson's nearly invisible monofilament line of psychology in trying to further his cause — "If he (were) a fisherman, he'd have you guys mounted on his wall."
It is Shaq who found himself in foul trouble two nights ago, and it appeared that the Lakers might need a flotation device to survive Game 2 at home.
That is when Bryant, after a poor shooting performance in the opener, found his stroke.
No sooner did Shaq leave with four fouls early in the second half than Bryant swept in and did what he does best: He took over the game.
Whether firing from the outside or slashing to the inside, Bryant could not be contained.
He finished with 36 points, 22 in the second half.
On that same day, the mother of Bryant's accuser spoke movingly at a victim's rights advocates rally in Denver.
I don't know if Bryant heard her remarks, which included the statement that "I would like to thank my daughter for teaching me about courage."
But he played as if possessed.
It doesn't take much courage to dribble a basketball, and only a coward would rape someone.
In Bryant's instance, he doesn't outwardly flinch when the pressure of external forces is at its greatest.
He has done that before this season, spending the day in court, then flying to a game site and playing as if he didn't have a care in the universe, when we all knew his fears were hidden behind that steely facade.
Perhaps it is anger that is fueling his play, a sense of injustice and outrage — if, indeed as he claims, he had consensual sex last summer with that young woman.
For now, he continues to carry his team.
What happens when the Lakers inevitably reach the road to San Antonio is another challenge, as are potential down-the-playoff road excursions to Minnesota, Dallas or Sacramento.
On a variety of levels, Kobe Bryant seems to need self-vindication, almost as badly as the Lakers need him.
Whether either achieves what they desire is an entirely different matter.
E-mail Jon Saraceno at jons@usatoday.com
