USATODAY.com - Bryant's heroics, deference pay off for Lakers
 Bryant's heroics, deference pay off for Lakers
By David DuPree, USA TODAY
EAST RUTHERFORD N.J. — If the just-completed NBA Finals 
  cemented Shaquille O'Neal's place as the most dominant player of his era, as 
  it most surely did, then they also served as a stage for Kobe Bryant to show 
  his overall brilliance.
O'Neal was deservedly a unanimous pick for the series 
  MVP award, as he averaged a record 36.3 points in the Los Angeles Lakers' 4-0 
  sweep against the New Jersey Nets.
But ever so quietly, Bryant's legend may 
  have grown even more.
Never before has a player on the winning team put up the 
  numbers and had the impact that Bryant had against the Nets and not been selected 
  series MVP.
The way Bryant subjugated himself much 
  of the time, doing whatever he could to best take advantage of O'Neal's dominance 
  and then taking over in the fourth quarters when the Nets' defense clustered 
  around O'Neal, make it hard to believe he is still only 23 years old, the youngest 
  player ever to have three championship rings.
 Lakers guard Kobe Bryant was at his best in 
        the fourth quarter during the NBA Finals.
A quarter-by-quarter breakdown 
        of his numbers:
"We rely on Kobe's maturity, leadership and ability to 
  take over a game when he has to and knowing when that time is," said Lakers 
  coach Phil Jackson.
"Together, he and Shaquille make quite a pair."
For the series, Bryant averaged 26.8 points, 5.8 rebounds, 
  5.3 assists and shot 51.4% from the field, 54.5% from three-point range (6-for-11) 
  and 85.3% from the free throw line (29-for-34).
In the fourth quarters alone, Bryant shot 63%.
He scored 
  12 in the final period of Game 3 and 11 in the last quarter of Game 4 to seal 
  both victories, making the Lakers only the fifth team to win three titles in 
  a row.
"I don't know about ranking among the best teams ever," 
  Bryant said.
"We have to stand the test of time.
I think people will talk about 
  it until they're blue in the face.
But we have a long way to go."
The Lakers, who set a record by losing only one game in 
  the entire 2001 playoffs, lost but four this season, three to the Sacramento 
  Kings in the Western Conference finals.
It's also the Kings, who had the best 
  regular season record in the league this season, who pose the biggest challenge 
  for the Lakers as they go for a four-peat next season.
"I'm sure Sacramento's working out right now," Bryant said. 
  "
They're going to try to take what we have and we're going to be waiting for 
  them."
