Man on a mission: Bryant revels in victory, Finals MVP - USATODAY.com
The Los Angeles Lakers star did it all against the Orlando Magic in Game 5 of the NBA Finals.
Bryant had 30 points, six rebounds, five assists and four blocked shots in Los Angeles' 99-86 victory Sunday, helping the Lakers to their first NBA title since 2002.
Kobe Bryant, Finals MVP.
For the first time.

CHAMPIONS: Lakers cast out Magic for 15th NBA crown
GAME REPORT: Lakers 99, Magic 86
LOPRESTI: Lakers author 15th chapter in title history
"It felt so good to be able to have this moment," Bryant said.
"We tried not to envision it too much … because you just get too excited.
You try not to think about it.
Just think about playing the game.
And for this moment to be here and to reflect back on this season and everything that you've been through, it's top of the list."
With defenders — sometimes two and three at a time — coming at him, Bryant averaged 32.4 points, 7.4 assists and 5.6 rebounds in the Finals.
He scored at least 30 in four of the five games, with a high of 40 and a low of 29.
This is Bryant's fourth championship ring, and his first without     Shaquille O'Neal as a teammate.
"From the standpoint of responding to the challenge, from people saying I couldn't do it without him, that feels good because you prove people wrong," Bryant said.
It is an accomplishment Lakers coach Phil Jackson didn't think was possible until Bryant learned to be a leader.
"He knew that he had to give to get back in return," Jackson said.
"He's become a giver rather than just a guy that's a demanding leader, and that's been great for him and great to watch."
During a timeout late in the fourth quarter, Bryant pumped his fists while sitting on the bench, sensing the moment.
After the game, he jumped and hugged teammates and daughters Natalia and Gianna.
"To actually do it and see it all happen, it feels like I'm dreaming right now," he said.
It has been a long two seasons for Bryant with his 2008 Olympic commitments, Los Angeles' appearance in last year's Finals and this championship run.
He is looking forward to a relaxing offseason.
"Just vacation.
Cabo (San Lucas, Mexico).
Stuff like that."
After a slow start that was modus operandi in this series — they trailed after the first quarter in four games — the Lakers took over without Bryant's scoring but with other aspects of his game.
He had four points, three assists and one steal in the second quarter as the Lakers turned a 28-26 deficit into a 56-46 halftime lead.
Bryant's signature move of the game, and possibly the series, came in the third quarter.
Bryant drove into the lane and brought the ball to his right.
With Magic center     Dwight Howard ready to block the shot, Bryant pulled it to his left side and banked in a jumper falling down, giving Los Angeles a 66-55 lead with 5:53 left.
The shot could be replayed over and over — similar to Michael Jordan's layup against the Lakers in the 1991 Finals, when Jordan went up with the ball high in his right hand and switched to his left on the way down.
The game wasn't over after Bryant made that shot, but the Lakers were on their way.
He was on a mission during the playoffs, especially in the last two rounds.
He rarely joked and treated every question from reporters seriously.
"Focus" was the word most used to describe him during the Finals.
"I was just locked in, completely locked in," Bryant said.
"It's a matter of understanding the moment.
It's also understanding your team and the lead that they have to follow.
That's what I tried to do.
I was grumpy for a while.
Now, I'm just ecstatic."
