Kobe Bryant’s Wife Vanessa Gives Birth, Welcomes 4th Daughter
Another one!
Kobe Bryant is now the proud father of of four daughters after his wife, Vanessa Bryant, gave birth to a baby girl on Thursday, June 20.
“Our baby girl is here!!!!!
!” Vanessa wrote on Friday, June 21, via Instagram.
“Capri Kobe Bryant.
So thankful for our newest baby blessing.”
The former NBA player, 40, and his wife, 37, announced in January that they had another baby on the way with an enthusiastic Instagram reveal.
“Vanessa and I are beyond excited to announce that we are expecting another #mambacita to go along with Natalia, Gianna and Bianca,” the athlete wrote at the time.
“New Year, New Baby!
Baby Mamba on the Way 2019.”
While the former Los Angeles Laker shooting guard didn’t reveal his wife’s baby bump at the time, her budding belly was on full display in his Mother’s Day tribute.
“We love you and thank you for all that you do for our family,” Kobe captioned a family photo in May.
“You are the foundation of all that we hold dear.
I love you.
#lioness #mamabear.”
In the sweet pic, the pregnant star cradled her baby bump in an off-the-shoulder pink dress with her daughters and husband smiling around her.
The family of five stood in front of a gold and pink balloon arch and a table decorated with butterflies.
Kobe and Vanessa, who tied the knot in 1999, welcomed Natalia, 16, in 2003.
She became a big sisterthree years later when Gianna, 13, arrived, followed by Bianka, 2, in 2016.
When asked in 2017 whether he wants to try for a boy, the Wizenard Series: Training Camp author told Extra, “I hear boys are just walking tornadoes.
We’ll see.
I think Vanessa wants a boy more than I do.”
The Philadelphia native retired from the NBA in 2016 after 20 seasons and five championships.


For access to all our exclusive celebrity videos and interviews – Subscribe on YouTube!
Us Weekly has affiliate partnerships so we may receive compensation for some links to products and services.
Part of the A360 Media Entertainment Group.Powered by WordPress.com VIP
