Grammys 2020: Lil Nas X, DJ Khaled, the Jonas Brothers, and More Pay Tribute to Kobe Bryant | Vanity Fair
To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
By Erin Vanderhoof
To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
To revist this article, visit My Profile, then View saved stories.
At the Staples Center on Sunday night, just hours after news broke that Lakers superstar Kobe Bryant had died in a helicopter crash, the first words of the Grammy Awards belonged to Lizzo: “Tonight is for Kobe,” she said before launching into the opening of her hit “‘Cause I Love You.”
With mourners gathered outside of the arena on the other side of the gate from where the red carpet was erected, the Grammy Awards could not help but be a tribute to the player who had spent so much of his career in the same arena.
In her first onstage appearance of the night host Alicia Keys began by saying, “We’re all feeling crazy sadness right now.
Earlier today Los Angeles, America, and the whole wide world lost a hero.
And we’re literally standing here heartbroken in the house that Kobe Bryant built.” Then she and Boyz II Men performed a brief, a capella rendition of “It’s So Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday.”
https://twitter.com/THR/status/1221602895608467457
Inside the Staples Center, all jerseys on display had been covered except Bryant’s:
https://twitter.com/ScottFeinberg/status/1221603525764890625
There was already one emotional tribute planned at the Grammys, to honor Nipsey Hussle, another Los Angeles icon.
On the red carpet before the show, Ryan Seacrest talked to Common, DJ Khaled, H.E.R.
and more stars about the heavy mood of the evening.
“Kobe inspires me and gives me motivation because of his drive and how hard he works,“ H.E.R said.
“I kind of want to channel that same energy.”
Talking to Seacrest, Trevor Noah said, “You can feel it.
We’re celebrating each other today, but at the same time it feels like the entire Staples Center is going to be celebrating someone who strove for excellence.”
The Jonas Brothers all wore purple ribbons on their lapels, reportedly in honor of Bryant:
https://twitter.com/Refinery29/status/1221591711434125317
Priyanka Chopra also had a tiny “24” painted on her nail— the number Bryant wore beginning in 2006.
The official CBS telecast began at 8 p.m. Eastern time, but 76 of the night’s awards are given out in a live-streamed pre show that began at 4 p.m., and it kicked off with a moment of silence for Bryant.
According to the Associated Press, the interim president of the Recording Academy Harvey Mason expressed his regrets onstage.
“As most of you may know, we lost Kobe Bryant in a tragic helicopter accident today,” he said.
“Since we are in his house, I would ask you to join me in a moment of silence,” Mason said.
Tributes to Bryant continued throughout the show.
At the beginning of Lizzo’s performance, she said, “Tonight’s for Kobe.” Before they joined Tyler, the Creator for his performance, the three members of Boyz II Men—Nathan Morris, Shawn Stockman, and Wanya Morris,—joined host Alicia Keys onstage to sing their 1991 hit “It’s So Hard to Say Goodbye to Yesterday,” a memorial classic.
During the Run-DMC performance with Aerosmith, Joseph Simmons held up a white Bryant jersey.
While Lil Nas X strummed the opening notes to “Old Town Road,” a purple Bryant jersey was displayed on a chair.
He ended his performance with the phrase, “Kobe, we love you!”
An image of Bryant was projected during the tribute to Hussle.
Gospel star Kirk Franklin joined DJ Khaled and Meek Mill on stage at the end of the tribute.
Khaled closed it out with “Rest in peace, Nipsey; Rest in peace, Kobe.”
At the end of the “In Memoriam” segment, Trombone Shorty and the Preservation Jazz Hall Band played, and the sousaphone was decorated with a 24 inside.
— Inside the breakdown of Harry’s relationship with the queen—  All of the looks from the Golden Globes 2020 red carpet— Royal family “hurt” and “devastated” by Harry and Meghan’s bombshell exit— Elizabeth Wurtzel’s unfinished work— Meet Carole Ghosn, the wife ensnared in Carlos’s saga— Emilia Clarke on life after Khaleesi— From the Archive: Diana’s revenge
Looking for more?
Sign up for our daily newsletter and never miss a story.
Will be used in accordance with our Privacy Policy.
More from Vanity Fair
Contact
© 2020 Condé Nast.
All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement (updated 1/1/20) and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement (updated 1/1/20) and Your California Privacy Rights.
Vanity Fair may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Ad Choices
CN Entertainment
