In Philadelphia, Kobe Bryant finally gets love from his home town - The Washington Post
PHILADELPHIA — Kobe Bryant has accomplished virtually everything one can on a basketball court.
Now in his 20th and, after Sunday’s official announcement, final season as a member of the Los Angeles Lakers, Bryant is a five-time NBA champion, two-time Olympic gold medalist and unquestionably one of the greatest players to ever play the game.
But for all of his greatness on the basketball court, one thing Bryant has never enjoyed is the love of the fans here in his home town, the place where he began to make his name at nearby Lower Merion High School before declaring for the 1996 NBA Draft.
“This is one experience that he hasn’t had in his entire career,” Lakers guard Lou Williams said before the Philadelphia 76ers beat the Lakers by a score of 103-91 Tuesday night.
“It’s a completely different thing.
“Confidence and talent and accolades and all of that stuff aside … I think a good reception at home would be great.”
Here’s why Kobe Bryant made the right decision to retire
Forget a good reception; this was a full-on love affair.
Any thoughts that Bryant, 37, would not get the reception he has waited his 20-year career to receive were erased the moment Sixers public address announcer Matt Cord began introducing Bryant — an introduction that included 30 seconds worth of extolling all of Bryant’s accomplishments as a player while the sellout crowd inside Wells Fargo Center rose to give him a thunderous standing ovation that lasted close to a minute before the crowd finally allowed the home team to be brought onto the court.
“They got me,” Bryant said of the reception.
“I wasn’t expecting that type of reaction and ovation.
It was emotional for me, and I’m deeply appreciative … beyond belief.
It was really, really special.”
The Sixers, who by winning broke an 0-18 skid to start the season that had tied an NBA record for the worst start in league history, then took things a step further.
The team played a minute-long video on the video board inside the arena that drifted through all of the various stages of Bryant’s basketball life — playing at Lower Merion, joining the Lakers after they acquired the No.
13 pick from the Charlotte Hornets in the 1996 NBA Draft, and his many brilliant moments during his 20 years wearing purple and gold — before bringing Julius Erving and Bryant’s high school coach, Gregg Downer, onto the court with a framed No.
24 Lower Merion jersey to present to the future first ballot Hall of Famer.
NBA players react to Kobe Bryant’s retirement
“The intro, and then at the end of the game, my high school coach being there, Dr. J being there … I couldn’t ask for anything better,” Bryant said, “other than winning the game.”
That Bryant wound up going 7 for 26 overall and 4 for 17 from three-point range after a hot start almost didn’t matter, given the way he clearly appreciated the support from the hometown fans.
He was smiling at various points throughout the game despite the misses and stopped to share some laughs with fans in the front row on more than one occasion.
It also appeared that the young Sixers — all of the 10 players who played for them Tuesday night were 24 and under, while rookie Jahlil Okafor was less than a year old when Bryant began his career — were a bit star-struck early on, something both Philadelphia Coach Brett Brown and Bryant himself confirmed.
“They were,” Bryant said with a laugh.
“When I came out and made three in a row, I could sense [them thinking], ‘I really don’t want to touch him,’ that sort of thing.”
But Tuesday night’s love-fest was a departure from what has been an awkward and contentious history between Bryant and his home town — one that began when the Sixers decided not to draft Bryant as he hoped they would and instead took Georgetown star Allen Iverson with the No.
1 overall pick in 1996.
“When I was in high school, I hoped to be a Sixer,” Bryant said during a reflective 15-minute news conference before Tuesday’s game.
“I was always hoping that.
But at the time, Iverson was such a force … but it was always a dream of mine to play in Philadelphia.
But once that didn’t happen, my childhood ambitions of being a Los Angeles Laker was actual reality … once I became a Laker I was never going to look back.”
Bryant didn’t, and neither did Philadelphia.
While the city fell in love with Iverson, the tough-as-nails competitor that embodied this city’s spirit on the court, Bryant went across the country and became a superstar in Los Angeles.
Then, after the Lakers took a two games to one lead over the hometown Sixers in the 2001 NBA Finals — the second of three straight championships Bryant would pair with Shaquille O’Neal to win — Bryant said, “We’re going to cut their hearts out,” as he walked off the court inside this arena.
Kobe Bryant’s retirement solves a huge problem for the Lakers
After the Lakers did just that, winning the next two games to claim the championship and extend a Sixers championship drought that dates back to when Erving and the late Moses Malone — who was also honored Tuesday night — led the team to the 1983 title, things were never quite the same for Bryant in Philadelphia.
There was no greater example of that than the 2002 All-Star Game, which was held here.
While Iverson was wearing an Erving jersey and the hometown fans hoped he’d win Most Valuable Player honors, Bryant — six months after taking a championship away from his home town — came out gunning for the award.
He put up 25 shots, far more than anyone else, and was the runaway choice for MVP.
But when then-NBA Commissioner David Stern handed Bryant the trophy, he was resoundingly booed on national television by the fans in the city he grew up in.
“Thank you for everything,” Bryant said Tuesday, when asked what message he’d like to send to the people here.
“It’s such a beautiful thing.
I was just driving around last night, going to all the parks I used to play in, just driving by them.
You see so many familiar faces and you just kind of think about how fast time went.
“I’m very appreciative and very thankful for everyone.
Those who supported, those who didn’t … it was all just part of the entire journey.”
They say time heals all wounds, and with Bryant’s looming retirement fast approaching, that appeared to be the case, as a city known for brotherly love finally showered it upon one of its greatest native sons.
And, in typically dramatic fashion, Bryant found his own unique way of repaying them.
The game kicked off with Lakers Coach Byron Scott running the first three plays of the game for Bryant — and with Bryant, who entered the game as the worst statistical shooter both overall and from three-point range in the entire NBA, burying his first two shots, sending the crowd into a delirious frenzy.
Then, after D’Angelo Russell collected an offensive rebound on Bryant’s third shot, he sent it right back out to him, and Bryant stepped into a fourth that hit nothing but net, giving him nine points in the first 76 seconds of the game.
Bryant then turned and went back downcourt as fans here serenaded him with “M-V-P!” chants.
In a career full of accomplishments, he’d checked off yet another one: a hero’s welcome in his home town.
“You can’t script this stuff,” Bryant said.
“The amount of respect and appreciation and the adoration I have for this city, and to be able to have this moment here … it just means everything to me.”
The most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.
By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
The most important news stories of the day, curated by Post editors and delivered every morning.
By signing up you agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy
