Sporting News' NBA Athlete of the Decade: Kobe Bryant, SG, Lakers - Sporting News - NBA - Sporting News
Is he the next Michael Jordan?
Can he win a title without Shaquille O'Neal?
Is he still better than LeBron James?
When it comes to Bryant, the talking points have always missed the mark.
No player in the history of the sport has been as hell bent on muscling up and improving his game every offseason.
Bryant continues to set the bar on hard work, and there's no sign of anyone reaching his level in that regard.
Bryant: 28.2 points per game, 5.9 rebounds, 5.2 assists, one MVP, four titles
Duncan: 21.2 points per game, 11.7 rebounds, 3.3 assists, two MVPs, three titles
SportingNews.com voting
Bryant 55%
Duncan 45%
 Former Lakers teammate Shaquille O'Neal's case for Bryant: "The thing about Kobe is that, over the course of my career, I have never played with anyone who was as fierce as he is.
By fierce I mean just having that extra killer instinct that you know when the game is on the line he is not going to shy away from the big shot, he is not going to make excuses.
If we would go into the fourth quarter, playoffs or just some game in the season and we were within a little bit of the other team, Kobe was not going to shy away from the challenge of getting the win.
He was going to take the shots."











Related Links

MLB AOD: Albert Pujols, 1B, Cardinals
NFL AOD: Peyton Manning, QB, Colts
CFB AOD: Matt Leinart, QB, USC
CBK AOD: Tyler Hansbrough, C, UNC
NHL AOD: Nicklas Lidstrom, D, Red Wings
NASCAR AOD: Jimmie Johnson, No.
48, HMS
 











Our pick's memory of the decade: "This year meant a lot.
We won a championship.
It was satisfying, very satisfying, because we put in a lot of time and effort to fix things and get better.
It's a great memory.
I feel that we just had such a great team, such a fun team, from our chemistry to the way we executed.
We went through some years and years of frustration to get to that point."
2001: Allen Iverson
2002: Tim Duncan
2003: Tim Duncan
2000: Shaquille O'Neal
2004: Kevin Garnett
2005: Shaquille O'Neal
2006: LeBron James, Steve Nash
2007: Dirk Nowitzki
2008: Kobe Bryant
2009: LeBron James
--Contributing: Sean Deveney, Steve Greenberg
A longer version of this story first appeared in the Sept. 28, 2009, edition of Sporting News magazine.
If you are not receiving the magazine, subscribe today, or pick up a copy, available at most Barnes &amp; Noble, Borders and Hudson Retail outlets.
To me, it's all about who was at the top of their game the longest, and as amazing as Kobe's last few years have been, Duncan was an MVP candidate every single season he played until maybe this year.
That's how I judge it.
Unfortunately Duncan did it without highlights, so it gets downplayed.
Plus we got a whole historian's fallacy thing going on where we re-visualize Kobe 2001 through the awesome lens of Kobe 2009, as if he's always had this perch atop the league.
2000 through 2005 is what puts Duncan ahead.
I wont say Kobe shouldn't be the player of the decade for the NBA, I just want to know WHY they chose Kobe, they really didn't give any real reasons to why they chose him.
I personally have to give this one to Tim Duncan.
His stats wont show the story but in my opinion he's been the best and most consistant this decade.
He's been on the best team of the decade too, never missing the playoffs and winning 3 championships.
He's averaged a double double every year this decade.
He has 2 MVP's, 2 Finals MVP's, 3 championships, and never missed the playoffs.
(both Shaquille and Kobe have and both have lost in the championship (Shaq once) (Kobe twice) I have to give this on to Duncan.
Both Shaq and Kobe have also missed the playoffs this decade.
I personally choose Duncan but you can't go wrong with Kobe.
The word "decade" means 10 years.
The past decade is 99-09.
Duncan has 4 rings in that span, never missed the playoffs, and is the best player ever to play PF.
Kobe is not even the best Laker of the decade.
This is just more LA jock riding.
Any sane person can see that TD is the clear choice, and Shaq is the runner up, then Kobe.
"The word 'decade' means 10 years"
Okay, MRCUTLASS:
2009 - LA Lakers
2008 - Boston Celtics
2007 - San Antonio Spurs
2006 - Miami Heat
2005 - San Antonio Spurs
2004 - Detroit Pistons
2003 - San Antonio Spurs
2002 - LA Lakers
2001 - LA Lakers
2000 - LA Lakers
Duncan has THREE rings in that span.
The decade is the 2000's meaning, 1999 DOES NOT COUNT.
It's simple math!
11 is not 10, 10 is not 11.
Come on man!
Now, I know you are trying to teach us something.
Duncan has 4 rings.
Ok, we get it.
So does Kobe and Shaq.
Kobe IS the best Laker of the Decade.
Talk about his work ethic, waking up 4:30am every morning to work on his game.
(Look at Kobe's 666 training program).
When he hit rock bottom and people were kicking him, he found a way to get up.
When people said he would never win one without Shaq, he proved us wrong (I hate Lakers).
If Shaq was the Lakers player of the decade, why did Lakers choose to keep Kobe as a franchise player?
Was it because Big Shaq Diesel took his summers off and used the season to get in shape?
While Kobe drove himself to the point of obsession, trying to be the greatest player of all-time.
He may never be the GOAT.
But he IS the player of the decade.
He has the biggest global impact, #1 jersey, helped basketball grow around the world.
You can't hate that.
He's great for this sport and LA.
Now, you say this is 'LA Jock Riding'...this is LA/Kobe hating.
Look, any sane person would know simple math (first off), and second, anybody who understands the game/respects the game, knows you can't go wrong with Kobe, Shaq, and Duncan.
All first-ballot Hall-of-Famers.
Sorry, but the team of the Decade in the NBA is the Lake show.
4 titles trumps 3 titles.
As for best of the Decade, I would probably lean toward Shaq...
I do really hate him, but he was the best in L... over the last 10 years, excitement Kobe gets the nod...
Although I am a devoted Lakers fan, I'm definitely going to lean towards Tim Duncan.
He has definitely been the most consistent player, on both ends of the court, for the past 10 years.
I think it is difficult to argue that Duncan has been the leader of his team for the past decade.
Kobe took a back seat to Shaq while he was in L.A.
As much as I hate to admit it...Duncan is hands down the best player over the past Decade!
You will always have those that won't agree.
That is what these type of polls are all about.
My frind and fellow pilot is a Suns fan and he believes it should be Stockton.
Go figure.
I just don't think that Duncan can carry a team like Kobe does.
In fact, I know he can't.
He has had good solid support while Kobe had to make do with many players that are no longer in the NBA.
Smush, and you can completed that list.
I also have said that Shaq won those titles with the Lakers because of Kobe not the other way around.
That is my take on this issue.
"You will always have those that won't agree.
That is what these type of polls are all about.
My frind and fellow pilot is a Suns fan and he believes it should be Stockton.
Go figure.
I just don't think that Duncan can carry a team like Kobe does.
In fact, I know he can't.
He has had good solid support while Kobe had to make do with many players that are no longer in the NBA.
Smush, and you can completed that list.
I also have said that Shaq won those titles with the Lakers because of Kobe not the other way around.
That is my take on this issue."
I really hope you're joking.
For Kobe's first three titles, he had Shaq, who absolutely carried the team.
This is evident by the fact that Shaq was the finals MVP all three years - not Kobe.
At that time, there was no question that Shaq was the leader of the team.
For Kobe's 4th title, he had a ridiculously stacked team with Gasol, Bynum, Odom, etc.
It was practically an all star team.
And don't forget about the year that the Lakers failed to win a ring despite having Kobe, Shaq, Malone, and Payton on the same roster.
That has got to be considered a HUGE failure for Bryant... and possibly the biggest waste of talent in NBA history.
Lastly, I hope you realize that Smush Parker wasn't on ANY of those 4 championship teams.
Every time Kobe won a ring, his team was LOADED with talent.
It's just a fact.
Duncan &gt; Kobe
I agree with this poll but I do feel Duncan is a very close second that in some ways it's like they should be tied.
I think what puts Kobe ahead is the story.
Kobe has the most storied, and by storied I mean would make a seriously entertaining book, career of any athlete today and probably ever when you think about growth.
I mean you take a 17 year old put him in the NBA, he becomes part of the biggest 1-2 duo, maybe the best 1-2 duo ever, wins 3 straight championships and parties like there's no tomorrow.
The rape charge comes and he gets into trouble, losses all his sponsers, tons of fans and even teammate support and the best 1-2 duo and possibly one of the greatest teams ever break up.
The rape charges prove false but the rep is destroyed while Shaq goes on to win another championship and Kobe plays with the worst LA team ever who miss the playoffs.
Kobe has crazy better than MVP season to bring them back, multiple 50+, 40+ games while still being the assist leader on his team.
Then has the 81 point barrage.
Kobe changes from 8 to 24 to signify new beginnings.
Team loses and Kobe want's out as part of that process.
Kobe comes back stays quiet and plays keeping the Lakers atop the Western Conf even before Ariza and Gasol get there.
Bynum, Odom, Farmar and Vujacic improve and Fisher becomes the rock to keep them all together.
The talent comes back Kobe grows immensely and wins MVP on a season where he didn't even begin wanting to play for the Lakers.
Get to the finals lose to an overpowering Boston team, but instead of hiding they learn from it.
Kobe comes back focused, beats both Boston and Cleveland both times regular season and leads his team through the playoffs.
Wins the NBA championship against a hot Orlando and dominates them.
Finals MVP.
On to the next one.
See it's a story and thats not even covering all the details.
Duncan doesn't have a story like that and that's why Kobe will beat him in all the polls and why he's a lock for the Hall even if he never plays another game in his life.
Plus Duncan had a great supporting cast throughout most of his career, I mean he entered the league with a guy who just made the hall last week or so.
Even making a team with guys like Smush, Kwame, Cook and them should be considered an accomplishment.
But hey just my opinion.
Still Kobe and Duncan are great players that I've enjoyed and will miss when they're gone.
I would put KOBE over Duncan also.
but i still say, you can put it in any order you want.
the best players are KOBE, Duncan, Shaq or in any order you want to put it.
All whom have 4 rings each.
Tim had to play with a lesser skilled group of players and had 2 MVPs, and 3 rings in the process.
It is Duncan by a wide margin as the dominant leader of his team and Shaq is by far the 2nd choice and Kobe a very distant third.
Duncan's teams have the highest winning percentage (often with lessor talent at many positions), and he is an even better defender than Kobe and was first team NBA also 8 straight years and has 3 finals and 2 MVPS.
As for the "story" noted by one comment above, Duncan never discredited his family, his team and the fans with his horrible off the court behavior nnd to put the selfish Kobe over Duncan based on the "story" is a joke.
Put Duncan at his best on any team during the first 7 years of this decade healthy and his impact on winning and the total game of basketball on the court when it counts - including a dagger three to repel the Suns makes him by far the true man of the NBA the last decade - sad that  both  the fans and the media go the other direction but in a media age that is expected, but totally wrong.
That ok as the rebuilt Spurs will simply embarrass the over-hyped Lakers this year behind in the end the dominance of TD and TD doesn't give a xxxxx@xxxxx.com about such bogus polls as these.
If head to head matters.
Kobe's teams have owned Duncan's teams when they have played.
Ducan has 4 titles, not 3.
(1999, 2003, 2005 and 2007)
Tatchan,
Duncan has 3 NBA titles this decade.
4 NBA titles total.
1999 does not count toward this decade (2000's).
He should be noted with 4 rings; however, 3 only count to this decade.
you have to be kidding me...Kobe is ahead of Duncan...not by a lot but he's ahead...are you guys forgetting Duncan won his titles with Robinson, Parker, and Manu...all of which you can argue were the best at their position (Manu as a 6th man) at some point during the Spurs run?
Obviously Kobe had Shaq, but Shaq had Kobe and telling me that scoring 25+ppg in each of those 3 finals means it was all bc of Shaq is just stupid.
I might even put KG ahead of Duncan.
You can put anyone but LBJ ahead of Kobe, and his case is lost when you take into account he has ZERO rings.
if we talk about decade the most consistent player is tim duncan and he is more efficient than kobe
did tim duncan finish 7 times as MVP runner up and win twice
while kobe is an mvp contender just twice and won 1
kobe never been a leader in the early stage of this decade he is somewhat uncoachable
your stats is pretty lopsided if you look only on ppg, apg and rpg
why not look at their fg% lol
and see if kobe is efficient in scoring 28 points
compare to duncan's 21 ppg
and when kobe win his 3 championship, he is not even the man of the lakers, it's shaq, did shaq avg 27 ppg 12 rpg and shoots 58% fg
and at playoffs with 35 ppg 15 rpg and shoots 62% fg
kobe is the sidekick
and btw lakers is stacked with good players when they won championships than spurs
shaq, kobe, fisher, horry, horace grant, rick fox, brian shaw, glen rice(1st run)
and now with pau gasol, odom, bynum, ariza, fisher
shaq &gt; manu and parker - shaq is dominant
bynum, odom and gasol &gt; manu and parker - no question ask
david robinson is way passed his prime when duncan arrived to the spurs
and did duncan won 2 rings playing with oberto and nesterovic as center lol
DUNCAN NEVER MISSED THE PLAYOFFS and finish top 10 standings in the whole decade
with an injured manu ginobli last year
GEEZ THIS SITE IS STUPID
and duncan is already named the best PF of all time malone and barkley admit it
while kobe is not even the greatest player of the lakers
Thank you for seeing the facts, and pointing out pure stats.
There are so many Faker fanboys on this site that it is just disgusting.
These so called fans are morons, and only listen to Faker jock riding media.
The true morons are the ones who let their emotions off on this website.
Here you are judging great athletes, when you don't have the mental capacity to stay level-headed on the internet.
I wonder how you treat people in real life.
You seem insecure with yourself.
Both of you.
Each comment and participation should be valued.
If you don't want to respect others who participate, simply get out.
Kobe fans, Duncan fans, Shaq fans...type away and say whatever the hell you want!
!
Duncan will finish a Stellar career as greatest Power forward, but not GOAT...
He doesn't create for himself, the ball is fed to him, He doesn't play physical Defence, he plays smart, by the book basketball, fundamentally sound, but never has been over powering (Shaq).
While greatest of the Decade should have went to Mr. O'Neil, Kobe gets the nod over Duncan in this as people voting remember the Lakers have won four titles this past decade, not three, so in this instance Kobe is best.. And think of this if you will, no Rape charge on Kobe and he is in the same sentence as Mr. Jordan.
Adrainp1,
Well said!
Except for the part where you spelled O'Neal as "O'Neil", haha, and Kobe was not charged of rape, he was only accused of rape.
Which we all know is false.
I don't have to mention about the girl having 3 different samples of semen on her panties, do I?
She was a golddigger from Colorado.
But hey, it is what it is.
Kobe did not murder pit-bulls like Vick, or continuously challenge the US government like Muhammad Ali in his early years.
Nobody even remembers that about Ali.
What we do remember about Ali, is that Ali is one of the Greatest Boxers of All-Time.
We will say the same with Kobe and basketball when it is all said and done.
...there were MVP voters who had their own agendas and deliberately left Kobe off their MVP ballots entirely (which was both unfair and ridiculous) for several years after the sexual assault charges against Kobe were dropped.
I'm no Kobe Bryant booster, but that was wrong and that's why I have a problem with those who use the number of MVP awards won or whether someone was runner-up or not as a basis for deciding who was the NBA player of the decade.
Kobe should have won more than one MVP award and definitely should have been in the top 3 every year in this decade.
It is very close between Kobe, Shaq and Duncan.
A very good case can be made for any of them.
kobe isnt the best player on the lakers because the all-time lakers is better than the all-time nba team,
players like shaq, wilt, kareem, magic, west, baylor, worthy, kobe, ac green, and coached by phil jackson assistant coash pat riley.
id take that over anyone from all other teams.
no one uses that bs arguement against derek jeter mocking him for not being the best yankee because of the great players in their history and the lakers are the same way your just a biased hater
Actually, the decade covers the period 09-00 through 08-09.
That's why they credit Timmy only with 3 rings.
These things are great for arguments and being a Lakers fan I'd pick Kobe slightly over the great Timmy.
The reason I wouldn't pick Shaq is because his production has fallen off and quite frankly he's moved around too much.
As an aside I think he plays well this year and is motivated to beat us in the Finals (only to fall short).
In the finality of things I see Kobe and Timmy in the rare pantheon of the 15 greatest players in the history of this beloved league.
think about it-- Timmy is arguably the greatest 4 who ever played while Kobe is to me the best 2nd place 2 by a wide margin even over Logo man to play(to this point of course).
Kobe always showed slightly more heart even as a younster than Timmy and head to head has usually dominated Timmy and his boys.
Even Timmy's coach said it wasn't shq killing them but Kobe back in the day.
Kobe helped build Bruce Bowen's legacy.
Shaq IMO is perhaps the 3rd or 4th best center of all times to this point after Special K, Wilt, Rusell.
In reality no of this means much to me as I just relish greatness that's been repeatedly displayed in this flawed but great league.
Enjoy what promises to be an exciting season with LBJ poised to perhaps average 35 PPG.
Here's an early prediction I'll repeat after the season begins: Believe it or not, the statistical 2nd or 3rd best player can win MVP by averaging 23+ PPG, 5+ RPG and 7 APG.
Yes you heard it first, Kobe wins his 2nd MVP, provided Andrew stays healthy, and one of the benchers steps up.
I agree.
I am a Chicago Bulls fan.
It's been a tough decade for me.
Many people do not want to say what I am about to say:
Kobe Bryant is the closest thing to Michael Jordan.
It's true, and it's scary.
Kobe's drive and passion for the game cannot be surpassed.
His passion cannot even be surpassed by MJ.
[I know you're shaking your head].
If MJ had Kobe's drive and passion, he would have never left to baseball and maybe win 2 more championships.
I love MJ, and won't forget a lot of the things he's done.
Part of the reason why I won't forget a lot of the things he's done is because Kobe is here, to challenge MJ's legacy.
Kobe has MJ's torch that was once Magic and Birds.
If there is a player to surpass MJ, it is Kobe.
He deserves it.
Soon, this 18 year old player who scored 30+ points on MJ as a rookie in 1998, will surpass him.
It's just the evolution of this sport.
Kobe is only 31 years old and has Phil Jackson.
I am a huge MJ fan.
I am a bigger basketball fan.
Keep up the good work, SportingNews.com
I know this just kills all you Kobe haters, but they picked the right one!
1.
Kobe &amp; Shaq
2.
Timmy
Picked Kobe over Duncan ((or Shaq for that manner).
Kobe may have been the athlete of the last year in the NBA but the decade - what a friggin joke.
Dominance in a sport is being the Key man on a winning team and Kobe simply has not done that like Duncan or Shaq.
I don't define dominance as the inability to produce a single back to back finals APPEARANCE.
Duncan hasn't even been to the finals back to back let alone win a back to back finals.
Kobe is working on his second 3rd straight final appearance.
Even Shaq hasn't done that without Kobe.
Kobe over the last Decade... more Rings, more excitement, Broke records, not backboards..
The Heir to Mike is the winner...
He will dominate for next 4 years, you are a WITNESS!
Empty Text
Use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy.
© 2009 SportingNews.com and its licensors.
All rights reserved.
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of SportingNews.com.
