Billups brushes off MVP chatter - Orlando Sentinel
A lot of people are pushing Chauncey Billups -- the best player on the best team in the league -- for the NBA Most Valuable Player Award.
He isn't one of them.
Neither is the rest of the Detroit Pistons.
"It would be nice if he won it, but that kind of stuff really isn't a big concern for us,'' Detroit General Manager Joe Dumars said before the Pistons-Magic game Friday night.
"It would be like a dessert.
We're more interested in getting another four-course meal [another championship].''
Billups is considered one of the top four candidates in a season where there is no clear-cut choice.
There is Steve Nash in Phoenix, LeBron James in Cleveland, Kobe Bryant with the Lakers and Billups in Detroit.
He is having his finest season, averaging career highs in points (19.1 points per game) and assists (8.7 assists per game), clearly the catalyst for the team that has held the best record (61-15) all season.
He is one of only five players in the league shooting better than 90 percent from the free-throw line.
He is first among Eastern Conference point guards with 26 double-doubles.
And he leads the NBA in assists-to-turnover ratio (4.04-1).
Yet the dynamics of this MVP race have reopened the debate over what criteria should be used in the voting.
Bryant has been downright dazzling this season -- the best player in the league -- averaging 35.1 points, the most since Michael Jordan averaged 35 points in the 1987-88 season.
Not since that season has a player from a team outside of the best four records in the league won the MVP.
Jordan won the MVP that year, and the Bulls had only the seventh-best record.
"I think it should be the best player in the league, and I think Kobe Bryant is the best player in the league," Billups said.
"That's the way I always looked at the MVP Award.'"
Billups said he is flattered that his name keeps being mentioned, but he shrugged off the possibility of winning the award.
He won't lose any sleep, and neither will Dumars if he doesn't win.
"That [his candidacy] proves they aren't looking at it like I do.
I'm not the best player in the league.
I know that," he said.
"But I'm on a great team, and I'm the catalyst, and I'm having a great season.
Voters are going to do what they want."
Kobe chases history
Bryant is close to joining a very exclusive club, which is why he should win the MVP Award despite playing for a team that is far from the league's elite.
