Kobe Bryant of Los Angeles Lakers to sit out vs. Golden State Warriors - ESPN Los Angeles
LOS ANGELES -- Following recent subpar performances after which he had complained about fatigue, Kobe Bryant will sit out Tuesday's game against the Golden State Warriors to rest.
[+] EnlargeMark J. Rebilas/USA TODAY SportsLakers coach Byron Scott said he has not ruled out resting Kobe Bryant multiple games this week.
Los Angeles Lakers head coach Byron Scott said guard Wayne Ellington would start in place of the 36-year-old Bryant, who is averaging a team-high 26.4 points per game on a team-high 35.4 minutes per game.
"I didn't get much of a fuss with it," Scott said of his discussions with Bryant before the game at Staples Center.
"He had told me last night, 'Coach, whatever you want to do.'"
Scott added, "Kobe is more than willing to do whatever we need to do to keep him at a high level."
Scott did not rule out resting Bryant multiple games this week.
The Lakers are scheduled to play a back-to-back road set starting Thursday in Chicago against the Bulls before heading to Dallas to face the Mavericks on Friday.
Bryant will not be in the building Tuesday night, and was told to meet the team on the plane when the Lakers leave for Chicago.
Bryant, who is in his 19th NBA season, had one of his worst performances of the season Sunday night against the Sacramento Kings, finishing with more turnovers (nine) than made field goals (eight).
He scored 25 points, but it took 30 shots, and the Lakers lost 108-101.
Use a Facebook account to add a comment, subject to Facebook's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Your Facebook name, photo &amp; other personal information you make public on Facebook will appear with your comment, and may be used on ESPN's media platforms.
Learn more.
Pelton: Hawks winning with depth and D Q&amp;A: Klay Thompson on his rise to stardom Thorpe: How Wiggins compares to young LeBron  Goodman: Horford's value shows in win column The Ten: Top 10 stories from last night
