Cleveland Cavaliers' five best options with No.
5 pick in 2020 NBA Draft: Chris Fedor - cleveland.com
Auburn's Isaac Okoro could be one of the many players the Cleveland Cavaliers consider with the No.
5 pick in the 2020 NBA Draft.
AP
CLEVELAND, Ohio -- After months of internal debate, countless film breakdowns and statistical analysis, teams are finally able to see these NBA Draft prospects in person -- a sense of normalcy during a wacky process that made scouting more complicated.
They can have interviews, watch workouts live and dine together, trying to fill in the final pieces of the evaluation puzzle.
While the Cavs spent a day earlier this week meeting with rising prospect Obi Toppin, one of many players in consideration with the No.
5 pick, they are in a tricky spot.
Not only are they behind teams at the center of offseason trade rumors, but the poor view of this draft hasn’t changed and smokescreens are prevalent this time of year.
There are reasons to choose any of these top prospects -- and reasons to pass.
So, what will the Cavs do with their lone selection this year?
What should they do?
For this exercise, I’m assuming (always dangerous) LaMelo Ball, Anthony Edwards and James Wiseman are off the board.
Here are the five best options with the fifth pick when the draft takes place Nov. 18.
Trade down
Who doesn’t want to move down?
Minnesota, in the top spot, and Golden State, one pick behind, look like prime trade-back candidates given their desire for help-now pieces.
But trading won’t be easy, and the value of top picks isn’t as high given the class perception.
Even with those concerns, the Cavs should dangle No.
5 and see what offers come.
Chances are they will be picking from the second tier of prospects, which is an incredibly crowded group.
Most current prognostications have Edwards, Ball and Wiseman going top three -- in some order.
The Chicago Bulls, with a rebuilt front office, are tough to gauge.
Killian Hayes?
Obi Toppin?
Deni Avdija?
Tyrese Haliburton?
Given Chicago’s current roster makeup, it will likely be one of that quartet.
Whatever the Bulls decide, it shouldn’t have much of an impact on the Cavs, who will then theoretically choose between Isaac Okoro, Devin Vassell, Patrick Williams, Onyeka Okongwu, or the Toppin/Avdija/Hayes/Haliburton leftovers.
I’d label Hayes least likely of that cluster.
Nonetheless, there’s little separating those prospects and there’s logic behind all of them.
That’s why moving back and grabbing an extra asset or two is the best option.
The Cavs could maneuver and still get one of those players.
The next question: Who becomes a logical trade partner?
The New York Knicks, Washington Wizards, Phoenix Suns and Boston Celtics are all close enough to No.
5 and could have interest in climbing, depending on who is available.
There’s widespread belief that New York wants to find a backcourt mate for last year’s No.
3 pick RJ Barrett.
Even though Cleveland has invested heavily in the guard spot, general manager Koby Altman has emphatically stated the franchise will take the best player available regardless of position, and Haliburton is unlike any of the guards on the roster.
Maybe the Knicks get jumpy thinking the Cavs would go that direction.
Even if the Knicks don’t buy Cleveland’s best player available credo, Atlanta and Detroit -- the two other teams in front of New York -- lurk as potential road blocks in that guard pursuit.
Perhaps the Knicks, holding the No.
8 pick, feel they can’t afford to miss out on either Hayes or Haliburton after Ball goes off the board.
That could prompt a move-up, swapping 5 and 8 with the Cavs, tossing in the 27th pick and perhaps another piece (Kevin Knox?
Ignas Brazdeikis?
).
The Wizards could go several directions.
Given their defensive deficiencies, Okongwu would be a natural fit.
But will he still be on the board at No.
9?
What about Washington and Cleveland swapping spots and the Wizards tossing in 21-year-old swingman Troy Brown Jr.?
The Suns have been discussed as a potential trade partner for the Warriors in the second spot.
But what if Phoenix can’t move up that far?
It would take less to get to No.
5, allowing the Suns to choose any of the available wings or a ball-handler of the future to eventually team up with Devin Booker once Ricky Rubio’s contract expires following the 2021-22 season.
Boston has three first-round picks and a roster crunch.
Despite the Cavs probably not being thrilled with dropping back to the last spot in the lottery, the Celtics have other pieces to make it work.
What about a massive deal between the two teams that also features an Andre Drummond-Gordon Hayward swap?
The hypothetical deal starts with Boston moving up to No.
5 and the Cavs dropping to 14.
The Celtics would then include No.
26 plus Robert Williams and Hayward for Drummond and a salary filler piece (maybe Alfonzo McKinnie or Jordan Bell), giving Boston the center it covets and needed roster flexibility while the Cavs fill their wing void with the versatile Hayward, snag an intriguing young center and get two first-rounders.
It’s something to think about.
Isaac Okoro, guard/forward, Auburn
The Cavs are the league’s worst defensive team.
It’s not about scheme, coaching or inexperience.
They just don’t have enough quality individual defenders.
Okoro changes that.
With a unique blend of power, strength, athleticism, length, size, toughness and desire, Okoro is the best defensive player in the draft.
He allowed 0.48 points per one-on-one possession as a freshman at Auburn, which ranked in the 90th percentile.
The questions come on offense.
How much value will he have at the end?
Okoro shot 51.4% from the field, 28.6% from 3-point range and less than 70% from the free throw line, leading some to wonder if those numbers can really improve over time.
While his jumper remains a work in progress, Okoro showed enough ability getting to the rim off the dribble or in transition, making him useful enough on that end early in his career.
At various points during this process, sources have compared Okoro to Jaylen Brown and Andre Iguodala.
In his lone season at Cal, Brown shot 43.1% from the field, 29.4% on 3s and 65.4% from the foul line.
Those numbers look similar, don’t they?
Brown has progressed nicely in the NBA.
After a few years of development, he’s one of the best young two-way players in the Eastern Conference.
Okoro is a winner with a terrific work ethic and relentless competitive drive.
He’s worth betting on.
Onyeka Okongwu, forward/center, USC
Let’s stick with the improve-the-defense theme.
Okongwu -- 6-foot-9 and 245 pounds with a 7-foot-2 wingspan -- averaged 2.7 blocks as a freshman at USC.
Not only does he takes pride on that end but he has the athleticism, quickness and mobility to switch onto smaller defenders and hold his own on the perimeter -- a needed skill set in the switch-heavy NBA.
“He’s good enough at what he does now -- finishing, using his athleticism, blocking shots, rebounding, running the floor.
He can step into any NBA team right now and help them win," USC head coach Andy Enfield told cleveland.com a few months ago.
"As he develops, gets stronger, understands the NBA game, I think he’s got tremendous upside.
It’s hard to predict whether a player is going to be an NBA All-Star at some point, but he’s going to have a long and productive career in the NBA because he’s such a hard worker and has such high upside.”
Okongwu’s ceiling will be determined by his growth on offense.
According to Synergy Sports, nearly three-quarters of his touches came off relocating inside, crashing the boards, running the floor, rolling to the basket, and rim-running.
He finished first in the Pac-12 in put-back scoring, second in post-up scoring and third in scoring as a roll man.
Quick off his feet and athletic, Okongwu can be dangerous lob threat who can also abuse switches with ambidextrous jump hooks while evolving into the modern-day big with a perimeter toolkit to complement his inside prowess.
Devin Vassell, guard/forward, Florida State
How much does a now-deleted 20-second clip of Vassell catapulting a basketball from behind his head rather than flicking it more naturally, like he did for two years at Florida State, change the evaluation?
Not enough.
Yet.
Although I reserve my right to boot him from this list if needed.
Vassell still checks many boxes and is an ideal fit for the wing-needy Cavs, profiling as the prototypical 3-and-D prospect.
Wiry and athletic, Vassell stands 6-foot-7, shot 41.7% from 3-point range and was equally adept at shooting off the catch or dribble.
He averaged 1.220 points per catch-and-shoot jumper in the half court, which ranked in the 87th percentile.
He scored 0.852 points per dribble jumper in the half court, canning shots in the midrange while also becoming more of a weapon in the pick and roll for the Seminoles.
On defense, he has the length to contest shots, get in the passing lanes and pester opposing offenses in isolation.
Based on Synergy metrics, Vassell allowed 0.50 points per isolation attempt, ranking in the 81st percentile in that category.
If his jumper hasn’t been shattered by a bored trainer during this longer-than-usual offseason, Vassell is a plug-and-play wing that battles for a Day One starting gig.
Tyrese Haliburton, guard, Iowa State
Another guard?
Seriously?
OK, hear me out.
Try not to get caught up in position here.
Focus more on skills because the draft should be about adding something different to the roster.
In this case, Haliburton brings size, passing and shooting -- three things the Cavs need most.
During a recent interview, Haliburton talked about bulking up his 6-foot-6 frame to around 180 pounds.
Suddenly, the Cavs would have a bigger guard to help mask the size limitations of the Garland-Sexton duo.
Haliburton used length to bother shooters.
His quick hands and good instincts allowed him to average 2.5 steals as a sophomore.
And his skinny frame didn’t deter him in one-on-one situations, as Haliburton ranked in the 84th percentile as an isolation defender.
Combine that multi-positional defensive potential with an ability to see the floor and distribute -- averaging 6.5 assists and creating nearly four times as many points passing out of the pick and roll as he scored -- along with a funky-but-effective shooting stroke, and it’s easy to see how Haliburton would bring traits the Cavs lack.
It would be similar to Oklahoma City, which leaned on the Chris Paul/Dennis Schroder/Shai Gilgeous-Alexander trio.
In a draft shrouded in mystery and uncertainty, no one has a bad thing to say about Haliburton, making him one of the safest picks.
He would instantly become Cleveland’s best playmaker.
One more to consider: Patrick Williams, forward, Florida State
The youngest college player in the draft brings plenty of upside -- and risk.
But the Cavs are in position to swing big.
Williams is 6-foot-8, with the potential to one day play both forward spots -- even though he’s not there yet.
Because Florida State doesn’t traditionally rely on one player, instead taking a team-first approach, Williams did a little bit of everything as a freshman.
He averaged 9.2 points, 4.0 rebounds, 1.0 steal, and a block in 22.6 minutes per game to earn ACC All-Freshman honors.
At this point he’s more of an athlete than a hooper who does his best work around the rim.
But if his raw offensive game continues to evolve, and he gets more comfortable on the perimeter at both ends, Williams could be a draft steal.
-
New Cavs face masks for sale: Here’s where you can buy Cleveland Cavaliers-themed face coverings for coronavirus protection, including a single mask ($14.99) and a 3-pack ($24.99).
All NBA proceeds donated to charity.
Buy Cavs gear: Fanatics, Nike, Amazon, Lids
More Cavaliers coverage
Browns, Cavaliers, Indians executives lay out the goals of alliance for social justice
2020 NBA Draft: Is LaMelo Ball worth the No.
1 pick?
How good will he be?
-- Fedor
Bickerstaff and wife donate iPads, year of internet service to 10 area high school seniors
Cavaliers, J.B. Bickerstaff distribute food, PPE to families in need
Andre Drummond on Cavs future, strange offseason and staying close with teammates
Discussing Chris Fedor’s NBA Mock Draft, Andre Drummond, Ty Lue and more: Podcast
2020 NBA Mock Draft: Cleveland Cavaliers stay true to best player available philosophy
Cavaliers extend radio partnership with iHeartMedia
Will Cleveland Cavaliers trade Andre Drummond?
Hey, Chris!
Three teams, four titles later, remembering LeBron James as ‘A Kid from Akron’ – Pluto
2020 NBA Draft: Does Devin Vassell’s altered shooting motion change top 5 potential?
Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our   User Agreement,  Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement,  and Your California Privacy Rights  (each updated 1/1/20).
© 2020 Advance Local Media LLC.
All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.
Community Rules  apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
Ad Choices
