Lakers legend Kobe Bryant - Remembrances and reaction
A look at the legacy of Lakers great Kobe Bryant, who was killed in a helicopter crash at the age of 41.
(4:36)
Los Angeles Lakers legend Kobe Bryant died Jan. 26 at age 41.
Bryant and his 13-year-old daughter, Gianna, were among nine people killed in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California.
Bryant entered the NBA straight out of high school in 1996 and won five championships and one regular-season MVP award.
Across the world, players, coaches and fans mourned Bryant's death.
The NBA announced in February that the All-Star Game MVP award, which he won four times, would be renamed in his honor.
Sunday would have been Bryant's 42nd birthday.
In honor of his memory, Nike is launching "Mamba Week," celebrating his impact on the NBA and the sports world as a whole.
On Monday, Aug. 24 -- 8/24 -- the NBA world will celebrate both of the jersey numbers worn during Bryant's 20-year playing career.
Relive Kobe Bryant's historic NBA career, as described by the Lakers icon.
Kobe had the skill and knowledge to be any kind of player he wanted to be.
-- Zach Lowe
"The Last Dance" offered a glimpse into the Michael Jordan-Kobe Bryant relationship, but the bond between the two basketball icons goes far deeper.
Jackie MacMullan remembers the Lakers legend as a man with limitless possibilities on and off the court.
Kobe Bryant approached his post-basketball life with the same Mamba Mentality he displayed as a player: an audacious, unyielding will to motivate the next generation.
-- Ramona Shelburne
Vanessa Bryant, Michael Jordan, Shaquille O'Neal and Diana Taurasi were among those who spoke during the memorial, while Beyonce, Alicia Keys and Christina Aguilera performed.
Here is how Los Angeles, the Lakers and the NBA world honored Kobe and Gianna Bryant.
People closest to Kobe Bryant shared the stories they looked back on ahead of his memorial service.
-- Ramona Shelburne
With Kobe's death, Roxane Gay finds herself in the uncomfortable position of having to challenge her own rigidity in such matters.
The morning after LeBron James passed Kobe Bryant for third in all-time scoring, on the flight home from Philadelphia, the Lakers learned of Bryant's death.
-- Dave McMenamin
LeBron James says he has been a wreck emotionally since the celebration of life for Kobe and Gianna Bryant.
Detail: Honoring Kobe Bryant
Phil Jackson goes in-depth on a Kobe Bryant fast-break dunk during Game 5 of the 2010 Western Conference finals.
The new episode of "Detail," Honoring Kobe, is exclusively on ESPN+.
Watch the full episode on ESPN+
Pau Gasol breaks down a Kobe Bryant fadeaway during his 61-point performance at Madison Square Garden.
The new episode of "Detail," Honoring Kobe, is available exclusively on ESPN+.
Watch the full episode on ESPN+
Diana Taurasi breaks down Kobe Bryant's 65-point performance against the Trail Blazers in 2007.
The new episode of Detail, Honoring Kobe, is available exclusively on ESPN+.
Watch the full episode on ESPN+
MORE: Detail: From the mind of Kobe Bryant
Latest tributes to Kobe Bryant
Tributes pour in to mark Kobe's birthday
WNBA players pay tribute to Kobe Bryant on his birthday
Lakers to don 'Black Mamba' jerseys in Game 4 vs. Blazers
Raiders' Derek Carr to wear arm sleeve to honor Kobe
Lil Wayne honors Kobe at BET Awards
Kobe to appear on two covers of NBA 2K21
NBA All-Star Game MVP award named in honor of Kobe
More tributes from: Shaquille O'Neal | Jeanie Buss | Rob Pelinka | LeBron James
Remembering Kobe
Michael Wilbon reflects on Kobe Bryant's life on and off the court, as he would have turned 42 on Sunday.
Elle Duncan tells the story of when she met Kobe Bryant and how he told her he loved being the father of daughters.
Snoop Dogg raps a tribute to honor the late Kobe Bryant, who died in a helicopter crash in January.
The biggest names in women's hoops reflect on Kobe Bryant's determination to shine a light on their sport.
Kyle Kuzma shares the importance of playing with confidence and how often he thinks of Kobe Bryant.
From the archive: ESPN writers on Kobe
Mamba out: Kobe Bryant was just getting started
The story of Kobe's greatest game
The unlikely people who led Kobe to embrace his obsession
How Kobe's legacy forced the Lakers to retire two numbers
Kobe Bryant's final game: A flurry of jump shots and glory
