NBA Finals 2020 - Schedules, news, odds and latest updates for Miami Heat vs. Los Angeles Lakers
Mike Breen delivers a summary of the hard-fought battle between the Heat and the Lakers.
(3:09)
The NBA Finals are complete, and for the 17th time in franchise history, the Los Angeles Lakers are champions.
Led by four-time Finals MVP LeBron James, the Lakers defeated the Miami Heat in six games to claim the Larry O'Brien Trophy at ESPN's Wide World of Sports at the Walt Disney World Resort, bringing an end to the longest season in NBA history.
James claimed his fourth NBA championship and became the first player to win Finals MVP honors with three different teams (2012 and 2013 Miami Heat, 2016 Cleveland Cavaliers, 2020 Los Angeles Lakers).
Re-live all the best moments from the 2020 NBA Finals from inside the NBA's bubble right here.
All 2020 NBA Finals games will be broadcast exclusively on ABC and ESPN Radio.
Games can also be streamed with the ESPN App.
NBA Finals Scores
Game 1: Lakers 116, Heat 98 | Highlights
Game 2: Lakers 124, Heat 114 | Highlights
Game 3: Heat 115, Lakers 104 | Highlights
Game 4: Lakers 102, Heat 96 | Highlights
Game 5: Heat 111, Lakers 108 | Highlights
Game 6: Lakers 106, Heat 93 | Highlights
Regular-season meetings
• Nov. 8: Lakers def.
Heat, 95-80
• Dec. 13: Lakers def.
Heat, 113-110
Don't have ESPN?
Get instant access.
LeBron James puts up 28 points, 14 rebounds and 10 assists to notch his 11th Finals triple-double, the most in NBA history.
Leaders:
• Points: LeBron James (LAL), 28 points
• Rebounds: Anthony Davis (LAL), 15 rebounds)
• Assists: LeBron James (LAL), 10 assists
Game 6 box score | Game 6 highlights
How LeBron James and the Lakers fought heartbreak to win the NBA Finals
The bubble gave the Lakers time to reflect on what got the franchise through their most difficult year.
-- Ramona Shelburne
LeBron vs. MJ: The GOAT debate is different now
Michael Jordan has reigned as the GOAT.
How does LeBron James' fourth NBA title change the debate?
-- Zach Lowe
The scenes of a Lakers title celebration like no other
After the longest season in NBA history, LeBron James and the Lakers celebrated a 17th franchise title and reflected on the year that was.
-- Dave McMenamin and Malika Andrews
LeBron's dominance, Rondo's resurgence and big takeaways from the Lakers' title clincher
LeBron James and the Lakers are the champions of the NBA bubble.
Our experts break down the biggest moments from Game 6 of the Finals.
How Year 2 of LeBron and the Lakers was a title roller coaster
As they sit atop the NBA once more, how did the Lakers arrive at this point in the second year with LeBron?
-- Dave McMenamin
Next for the Heat: Decisions on Bam Adebayo and getting another star
After an inspired NBA Finals run, Miami has big calls to make on several key players.
-- Bobby Marks
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Zach Lowe and Brian Windhorst offer instant reaction to the Los Angeles Lakers' closeout Game 6 win over the Miami Heat in the 2020 NBA Finals.
• Lakers dominate Heat for 1st NBA title in a decade
• LeBron wins fourth Finals MVP; only MJ has more
• Lakers (+375) favored to repeat as champions
• Pelinka: Summoned vital energy via Kobe's spirit
• L.A. turns rowdy as fans pack downtown street
• Heat's Butler: Didn't do my job, but 'we'll be back'
Tweet of the Night
🚨 JR SMITH IS ALREADY SHIRTLESS 🚨#NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/Ad47wRz0us
LeBron James reacts to winning his fourth NBA Finals and his first with the Los Angeles Lakers.
Jimmy Butler and the Heat outscore LeBron James and the Lakers 111-108 to force a Game 6.
• Butler drained after win: 'Left it all out on floor'
• LeBron on Green's open miss: 'You live with that'
Leaders:
• Points: LeBron James (LAL), 40 points
• Rebounds: LeBron James (LAL), 13 rebounds
• Assists: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 11 assists
Game 5 box score | Game 5 highlights
What can the Lakers do about Jimmy Butler and the Heat?
Jimmy Butler drove the Heat to a big Game 5 win.
Here's what the Lakers can do to claim the NBA title.
-- Kevin Pelton
NBA Twitter reacts to an epic LeBron vs. Butler duel
Jimmy Butler and LeBron James put on a show late in Game 5, with a championship on the line for the Lakers.
From afar, watching Game 5 of the Finals with Nick Nurse
After reigning as champions for 16 months, the Toronto Raptors coach reflects on his time in the NBA bubble and the intense Lakers-Heat Game 5.
-- Jackie MacMullan
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Zach Lowe, Brian Windhorst and former NBA All-Star Chris Bosh offer instant reaction to the Miami Heat's epic Game 5 win over the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2020 NBA Finals.
Tweet of the Night
Jimmy butler .... 💪🏼💪🏼💪🏼@JimmyButler is not over ...
The Lakers get contributions from up and down the roster in the fourth quarter, and they take Game 4 102-96.
LeBron James credits his teammates for performing in the Lakers' Game 4 win, plus how he'll prepare for Game 5 with an extra day's rest.
• LeBron's pregame text message sets Lakers' tone in Game 4
• Butler says Heat's confidence not going anywhere
Leaders:
• Points: LeBron James (LAL), 28 points
• Rebounds: LeBron James (LAL), 12 rebounds
• Assists: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 9 assists
Game 4 box score | Game 4 highlights
How the Lakers shut down a Miami Heat comeback
Here's how the Lakers pulled off a critical win and what it means for Game 5.
-- Kirk Goldsberry
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Brian Windhorst, Zach Lowe and Raptors coach Nick Nurse offer instant reaction to the Los Angeles Lakers' Game 4 win over the Miami Heat in the 2020 NBA Finals.
Tweet of the Night
People were killing KCP last year...need to be thanking him with how he played this series
Jimmy Butler goes for 40 points, including clutch baskets down the stretch, leading the Heat to a Game 3 victory and back into the series.
Jimmy Butler attributes the Heat's Game 3 win to finding a way to rebound and discovering inner confidence within the team.
• For Butler, beating Lakers means more than stats
• Lakers still confident despite loss: 'We'll be fine'
Leaders:
• Points: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 40 points
• Rebounds: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 11 rebounds
• Assists: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 13 assists
Game 3 box score | Game 3 highlights
Jimmy Butler's Game 3 master class was full of guile and guts
Despite being short-handed and down 2-0, the Heat summoned their pride in Game 3.
-- Kevin Arnovitz
Players react to Jimmy Butler's Game 3 'masterpiece'
NBA players took to social media to praise Butler, whose triple-double helped the Heat to their first win over the Lakers.
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Zach Lowe, Brian Windhorst and coach David Fizdale offer instant reaction to the Miami Heat's Game 3 win over the Los Angeles Lakers in the 2020 NBA Finals.
Tweet of the Night
They really tried to trick us into thinking that Jimmy wasn't a guy that you want on your team if you wanna win 🤦🏽‍♂️.
Dave McMenamin details how the LeBron James and Anthony Davis partnership is being compared to the Kobe Bryant-Shaquille O'Neal duo.
LeBron James breaks down the Lakers Game 2 win in the NBA Finals and how they can get better going forward in the series.
• LeBron, AD reach Shaq-Kobe heights in Game 2 win
• Spoelstra, Butler: Heat can rally from 0-2 hole
Leaders:
• Points: LeBron James (LAL), 33 points
• Rebounds: Anthony Davis (LAL), 14 rebounds
• Assists: Jimmy Butler (MIA), 13 assists
Game 2 box score | Game 2 highlights
Kobe Bryant prepped Anthony Davis for this
From the 2012 Olympics to the 2020 NBA Finals, Anthony Davis' continues to make good on Kobe Bryant's faith in him.
-- Ramona Shelburne
Udonis Haslem's fiery speech lit up NBA Twitter
The captain of the Miami Heat tried desperately to motivate his teammates during Game 2 of the NBA Finals.
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Zach Lowe, Brian Windhorst and Kendrick Perkins offer instant reaction to the Los Angeles Lakers' Game 2 win over the Miami Heat in the 2020 NBA Finals.
Tweet of the Night
How the hell did AD and bron end up on the same team?
?2 of the top 5 players in the world.
I feel like that fact isn't said loud enough when it comes to comparisons and "what if's" conversations/arguments.
Anthony Davis leads the Lakers in scoring with 34 points on the night to help Los Angeles make easy work of Miami in Game 1.
Anthony Davis reflects on the Lakers' Game 1 win over the Heat and talks about his personal feat of 34 points in his first career NBA Finals game.
• AD shines in Finals debut but 'job is not done'
• Heat's Dragic, Adebayo exit with injuries in loss
Leaders:
• Points: Anthony Davis (LAL), 34 points
• Rebounds: LeBron James (LAL), 13 rebounds
• Assists: LeBron James (LAL), 9 assists
Game 1 box score | Game 1 highlights
Everything we learned about the Lakers-Heat Finals after Game 1
Anthony Davis, LeBron James and the Lakers blew out the injury-riddled Heat in Game 1.
Here's what it means for the rest of the series.
Chris Bosh watches Game 1 with LeBron, Heat on the mind
As Chris Bosh watches his former teammate and team duel for this year's title, he roots them on and laments what might have been.
-- Jackie MacMullan
The Hoop Collective/The Lowe Post
Zach Lowe, Brian Windhorst and Doris Burke offer instant reaction to the Los Angeles Lakers' Game 1 win over the Miami Heat in the 2020 NBA Finals.
Tweet of the Night
Always look forward to watching the NBA Finals--and tonight I had the chance to thank a great group of first-time poll workers with @morethanavote.It's critical that everybody votes in this election--by mail or in person if you can.
Register to vote at https://t.co/d5gaMVt7hl.
pic.twitter.com/KgW5DAxnvn
• What Barack Obama said to the virtual fans during Game 1
Appreciate these absolutely stunning LeBron playoff stats
Here are six stats that demonstrate just how special and singular James' postseason career has been.
-- Kirk Goldsberry
The rehabilitation of Rajon Rondo
In the biggest moments, everyone expects Playoff Rondo.
But that's not the road Rajon Rondo took back to the Finals.
-- Jackie MacMullan
'This was the NBA's moonshot': Inside the final days of the bubble
The NBA bubble has come to an end.
Here are unseen moments from inside the league's unique campus in Florida.
Jimmy Butler established his legend, no matter what
The Miami Heat guard has left it all on the court in the Finals.
-- Ramona Shelburne
• Pelton: How the AD trade changed everything
• Lowe: How LeBron set the tone for the Lakers' dominance
• The ties that bind the Lakers and Heat
• Shelburne: The mind games of Andre Iguodala
• How the NBA navigated its longest, most unpredictable year
2020 PLAYOFFS REWIND: First round | Conf.
semis | Conf.
finals
First round: Def.
Portland Trail Blazers, 4-1
West semis: Def.
Houston Rockets, 4-1
West finals: Def.
Denver Nuggets, 4-1
Don't take LeBron James for granted in 2020
For the first time in 10 years, the Lakers are back in the NBA Finals, familiar territory for LeBron James.
It means more in 2020.
-- Ramona Shelburne
How the Lakers became the NBA's no-drama team
Inside the secret dinner with LeBron James and Jeanie Buss that took the Lakers from all-drama to all-business.
-- Ramona Shelburne
How a busted trade request got Anthony Davis to Los Angeles
Four months after a trade deadline didn't give the Pelicans and Lakers what they wanted, some new faces, a lost wallet and a jersey swap marked the start of a new path for two franchises.
-- Dave McMenamin
How the Lakers handled the days following Kobe Bryant's death
Kobe Bryant died as the Lakers returned from a cross-country road trip.
The five days that followed were like no others in the history of Laker Nation.
-- Ramona Shelburne
First round: Def.
Indiana Pacers, 4-0
East semis: Def.
Milwaukee Bucks, 4-1
East finals: Def.
Boston Celtics, 4-2
'You have to be cut from the cloth': The embodiments of Heat culture
The word "culture" gets tossed around in sports.
Miami's is real.
Bam Adebayo is the fiercest, best NBA player you don't know
Becoming an NBA All-Star at age 22 is only the latest surprise in the rapid rise of the next great Heat star.
-- Zach Lowe
Miami made the Jimmy Butler gamble that Chicago never could
Jimmy Butler has found his basketball nirvana in Miami after three tumultuous stops in Chicago, Minnesota and Philadelphia.
-- Nick Friedell
Duncan Robinson steps into the sunlight
The former Division III player had ample opportunity to call it quits.
Now he's one of the best shooters in the NBA.
-- Ramona Shelburne
MORE: Sign up for the ESPN Daily Newsletter
