NBA Draft 2020 News - ESPN Draftcast
Which players and picks are on the move?
We have a rundown of the latest deals.
Which players and picks are on the move?
We have a rundown of the latest deals.
Get expert analysis from previous drafts here.
• 2019
• 2018
• 2017
• 2016
• 2015
• 2014
Get expert analysis from previous drafts here.
• 2019
• 2018
• 2017
• 2016
• 2015
• 2014
Our experts update their rankings of the 100 best prospects for the 2020 NBA draft.
Who's going No.
1?
Here are the most likely NBA draft picks for every team.
Potential No.
1 NBA draft pick Anthony Edwards (Georgia) feels 'really great' and believes he showed his versatility during his Pro Day.
Former Kentucky standout guard Tyrese Maxey shows off his athleticism and ability to consistently knock down shots in his NBA Pro Day.
James Wiseman might be the more intriguing talent, but Onyeka Okongwu could emerge as the better center from this NBA draft.
These four prospects filled a role in college, but their games are likely better suited for the NBA.
Here's why the Iowa State guard could become one of this draft's best players and why he could be a perfect fit for Golden State.
With the Nov. 18 draft in sight, our draft experts give the latest on the pre-draft process, the No.
1 pick race and more.
What upcoming draft picks and traded picks does every NBA team owe and own?
Young players are contributing to playoff runs in Orlando.
Here are 12 prospects in the 2020 NBA Draft who could be key players in the future.
Here's our look at seven pressing items heading into the offseason, with predictions and intel from NBA front-office executives and scouts.
Our NBA experts propose trades involving eight teams and seven lottery picks.
To get an idea of how some of this year's NBA draft prospects might mesh with the Warriors, check out how their highlights match up with Steph, Draymond and company.
An unprecedented NBA lottery made news and showed its funny side.
Zach Lowe reports from the scene.
Our draft experts discuss which player the Timberwolves should draft No.
1 overall -- and who the Wolves will pick.
Golden State has a big decision ahead as it tries to return to title contention.
The 2020 NBA draft order is set.
Here's where all 30 teams will select in the first and second rounds.
2020 NBA Draft Order (5-14):
5.
Cavs
6.
Hawks
7.
Pistons
8.
Knicks
9.
Wizards
10.
Suns
11.
Spurs
12.
Kings
13.
Pelicans
14.
Celtics
Obi Toppin says he has spent the last year studying Anthony Davis in the lead up to the NBA draft.
Could your team land a superstar?
Enter the teams and players into our Trade Machine, and we'll tell you if it works.
Could your team land a superstar?
Enter the teams and players into our Trade Machine, and we'll tell you if it works.
In an appearance on LeBron James' talk show "The Shop," former President Barack Obama detailed the phone call with Chris Paul and James that helped save the NBA's season in the wake of the shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
The NBA and NBPA are running short on time to agree on starting the season before Christmas, and the league fears a January start could cost it up to $1 billion in revenue losses next season and beyond, sources told ESPN.
The Toronto Raptors say they will cooperate fully with the NBA's investigation of guard Terence Davis following his arrest in New York on charges including assault.
Snoop Dogg lists his all-time favorite Los Angeles sports players, who include Kobe Bryant and Lisa Leslie.
Jimmy Butler pranks a young kid making him Big Face Coffee, saying he's making it for free.
Jay Williams and Keyshawn Johnson react to Mike D'Antoni joining Steve Nash's coaching staff in Brooklyn.
