Dwyane Wade makes a bold claim about NBA draft prospect Anthony Edwards - Heat Nation
Dwyane Wade made a bold prediction about the player he believes deserves to be selected No.
1 overall in next month’s 2020 NBA Draft.
Wade recently commented on social media that Anthony Edwards of the University of Georgia should be taken as the first pick of the 2020 NBA Draft because of how good he can be.
The Miami Heat legend went as far as to say that Edwards could be better than him.
He can be better.
America here is your number 1 pick!
Ayo @VicOladipo we’re all built from the same cloth 💪🏾 That Tom Crean cloth!
https://t.co/ZTXg9VpZU7
— DWade (@DwyaneWade) October 30, 2020
Though Edwards initially suggested that he can be better than one of the best shooting guards of all time, Wade did not see it as arrogance from the University of Georgia product.
Instead, the 13-time All-Star complimented the youngster who is expected to be one of this year’s top three picks.
Playing just one season of college basketball, Edwards averaged 19.1 points, 5.2 rebounds and 2.8 assists per contest.
If Edwards expects to be better than Wade, then he has a lot of work to do.
Aside from the All-Star appearances, Wade was also a member of the 2003-04 All-Rookie First Team, made an All-NBA team eight times, an All-Defensive team three times and was an NBA champion three times.
The 6-foot-4 guard also owns a scoring title, an All-Star MVP and a Finals MVP.
A future Hall of Famer, Wade has amassed an impressive resume that will be tough for Edwards to top.
Nonetheless, Wade seems confident that Edwards can surpass all of his accomplishments.
The NBA draft will be held on Nov. 18.

You must be logged in to post a comment	
Login
Omar is a freelance writer who has followed the NBA for more than 30 years.
Prior to the Internet, he devoured every reading material he could find on the game from newspaper articles to books and magazines.
He became a Heat fan the moment they acquired Tim Hardaway and his killer crossover, and lamented not seeing him and Alonzo Mourning win a championship.
Seeing Dwyane Wade, LeBron James and Chris Bosh play in Miami was a surreal moment for him and more so after they validated the Decision with back-to-back championships.
He is ecstatic to cover Miami basketball for Heat Nation.
Ever since the Miami Heat acquired star forward Jimmy Butler, the assumption has been that Butler would play a...
Copyright © 2013 Heat Nation, All Rights Reserved.
Property of Ahn Fire Digital.
Partner with USA Today Sports Digital Properties.
Privacy Policy
