The official site of the NBA for the latest NBA Scores, Stats & News.
| NBA.com
It's Halloween season.
NBA players look back at some of the scariest legends to try and guard.
Trae Young, Lou Williams and Jaren Jackson Jr. are among several players who have cast their ballot.
Keep track as teams announce their new uniform designs.
We break down the 5 key skills that talented restricted free agent Brandon Ingram brings to the floor.
Mike D'Antoni and Ime Udoka will join Brooklyn's coaching staff.
Who Were The Scariest NBA Players To Guard?
Players Vote Across The Country
Teams Unveil New Looks For 2020-21
Free Agent Film Study: Brandon Ingram
D'Antoni Reunites With Nash As Nets' Assistant Coach
Next: Who Were The Scariest NBA Players To Guard?
Next: Players Vote Across The Country
Next: Teams Unveil New Looks For 2020-21
Next: Free Agent Film Study: Brandon Ingram
Next: D'Antoni Reunites With Nash As Nets' Assistant Coach
In the latest NBA.com Consensus Mock Draft, there's a new No.
1 after a shakeup at the top.
Trae Young, Lou Williams and Jaren Jackson Jr. are among several players who have cast their ballot.
Portland's new look features earth tone colors and an 'Oregon' wordmark.
Starting in 2020-21, the franchise returns to classic look.
Brooklyn will throw it back to 1990 with its latest look.
Toronto is the latest team to reveal a new look for 2020-2021.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s initials will displayed on the chest.
Uniforms feature double pinstripes to honor previous Charlotte designs.
Our scribes assess L.A.'s chances of winning back-to-back NBA titles.
Our scribes assess the Heat's chances of winning back-to-back East titles.
Our scribes chime in on what moment or game stood out most in the playoffs.
Our scribes chime in on which player took a leap into NBA stardom in the restart.
Our scribes chime in on which player stood out most in the restart.
Our scribes chime in on what aspects of the restart they'd like to see continue.
Relive all the action from the Lakers' dominant Game 6 victory that saw them crowned NBA champs.
Points Per Game
Rebounds Per Game
Assists Per Game
More Leaders
Want every headline right at your fingertips?
Sign up to receive NBA emails!
By clicking "Submit", you agree to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
You agree that your personal information will be used to send you messages about NBA related products and services, and share your personal information with NBA partners and affiliates so that they can also contact you about products and services that might be of interest to you.
If you are having difficulty accessing any content on this website, please visit our Accessibility page.
NBA.com is part of Warner Media, LLC’s Turner Sports &amp; Entertainment Digital Network
