NBA Rumors: 3 trade packages to send Kings' Buddy Hield to the Knicks
Buddy Hield is unhappy with the Sacramento Kings and could be in a new uniform next season.
Everyone in New York would not be sad to see that uniform be a blue and orange Knicks’ jersey.
Hield signed a massive extension with the Kings, but was passed over for Bogdan Bogdanovic.
Hield’s role on the bench did not make the former Oklahoma Sooner happy.
If there is a team in need of a three-point threat, or just any threat in general, it is the Knicks.
New York was among the worst shooting teams in the league this past season.
Over the last two years, Hield is averaging 20.6 points per game while shooting 40.8% from the three-point line.
Those two numbers right there make the deal worth it for the Knicks, but there is more.
Hield is a capable ball handler and would give the Knicks a scoring option down the stretch of games.
It seems more likely with each day that Buddy Hield is going to be sent somewhere.
Here are three packages that could send him from the Kings to the Knicks.
3 trade packages to send Bucks’ Giannis Antetokoumnpo to Warriors
5 intriguing options for Boston Celtics to address center position
With the lack of high-profile targets for teams in free agency this offseason, the NBA will see a lot of changes made via trade.
For the New York Knicks, the trade market will be a […]
It’s the offseason, so that means one thing — unrealistic trade and free agent rumors surrounding the New York Knicks.
It has already started with the idea of the Knicks making a blockbuster deal for […]
The Sacramento Kings face a strange relationship with Buddy Hield entering the offseason and pursuing a trade being what appears to be the best option.
The Philadelphia 76ers, on the other hand, need to move […]
Your email address will not be published.
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

			Copyright © 2020 | MH Magazine WordPress Theme by MH Themes
