NBA News - Latest team, player and league news | NBA.com
Mike D'Antoni and Ime Udoka will join Brooklyn's coaching staff.
he NBA and its players agreed to extend the deadline for opting out of the Collective Bargaining Agreement.
The veteran assistant coach takes over in Houston.
We break down the 5 key skills that talented restricted free agent Brandon Ingram brings to the floor.
Will Morey look to rebuild the Sixers into a 'small-ball' team like he did with the Rockets?
The Miller family has agreed to sell the franchise after 35 years of ownership.
New Orleans coach is optimistic about the 'exciting young talent' at his disposal, but knows improved defense will be key.
The two-time Kia MVP says Disney is looking for young actors to play him and his brother, Thanasis.
The Bulls' arena will be an Election Day voting site for the first time in Chicago history.
Keep track as teams announce their new uniform designs.
Trae Young, Lou Williams and Jaren Jackson Jr. are among several players who have cast their ballot.
Minnesota's Malik Beasley allegedly used a rifle to threaten a family who was house hunting in his suburban Minneapolis neighborhood.
Portland's new look features earth tone colors and an 'Oregon' wordmark.
Sportradar and Genius Sports Group will continue to distribute official NBA betting data to authorized sports betting operators in the United States
The Raptors say they are aware the 23-year-old guard was arrested.
The former Houston GM reportedly is finalizing a deal to become President of Basketball Operations in Philadelphia.
The Atlanta Hawks forward talks about his experience as a first-time voter and more.
The All-Star Thunder guard led nearly 2,500 people on a march to Winston-Salem State University to encourage students to vote.
The season may be over, but work continues as teams do their part to expand voting access
The Bucks guard said the importance of Wisconsin in the upcoming election caused him to fly back here this weekend to assist in a local voting drive.
The home of the NBA’s Denver Nuggets and the NHL’s Colorado Avalanche is being renamed Ball Arena as part of a global partnership with Kroenke Sports &amp; Entertainment.
Want every headline right at your fingertips?
Sign up to receive NBA emails!
By clicking "Submit", you agree to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policy.
You agree that your personal information will be used to send you messages about NBA related products and services, and share your personal information with NBA partners and affiliates so that they can also contact you about products and services that might be of interest to you.
If you are having difficulty accessing any content on this website, please visit our Accessibility page.
NBA.com is part of Warner Media, LLC’s Turner Sports &amp; Entertainment Digital Network
