Lakers Trade Rumors - Silver Screen and Roll
The Lakers have tried to get a scoring guard multiple times, dating back to last season.
The NBA has finally realized something the Lakers figured out a long time ago: Alex Caruso is really good at basketball.
Kyle Kuzma will be a restricted free agent in 2021, but a few teams would like to deal for him now... if the Lakers make him available.
Could the Lakers really add Chris Paul?
It’s theoretically possible, but still feels like a long shot to get done at this point, even if some people in the league disagree.
In a different world, LeBron James and Damian Lillard could have been teammates instead of first-round foes.
Given how good Anthony Davis has been, though, the Lakers likely don’t have regrets.
Damian Lillard ending up with the Lakers seems like it would be a while off, but we have another indication it could be possible down the line.
Unfortunately, it doesn’t sound like Beal is a hurry to get out of D.C.
There were rumors back in the 90s that the Lakers almost formed a big three of Shaquille O’Neal, Kobe Bryant and Scottie Pippen, but according to the man who put that team together, Jerry West, it never was close.
Charles Barkley almost joined the Lakers, and when it fell apart, he had to cut his celebration a bit short.
Kobe was a master motivator.
Could Magic Johnson have ever really played for an NBA team besides the Lakers?
According to some reports from the time, it was once thought to be possible.
Pau Gasol and Kobe Bryant formed one of the most productive and complementary duos in Lakers history.
Thanks to Pau, we know exactly where and when their bond began.
We already knew the Lakers wanted to go after Derrick Rose at the NBA trade deadline, and the latest rumors are that they may have been willing to part with fan-favorite guard Alex Caruso to get him.
The Lakers didn’t let trade rumors trickle into their locker room this season.
The Lakers have held onto Kyle Kuzma despite ample opportunity to potentially upgrade.
Now is the time for him to show people why he’s worth that commitment.
The Knicks were out of their mind at the trade deadline, and the Lakers were correct to walk away from Marcus Morris talks if it would have actually cost them Kyle Kuzma, Danny Green and picks.
The Lakers were unable to keep Marcus Morris away from the Clippers because they didn’t want to give up Kyle Kuzma.
We will be updating this page with all of the NBA trade rumors concerning the Lakers so far.
With just hours to go until the NBA trade deadline at noon, we still don’t know if the Lakers will make a deal, or just how shorthanded the Rockets will be do to moves of their own.
Barring a last-minute development, Andre Iguodala won’t suit up for the Lakers this season.
There is little indication in how interested the Lakers have been in dealing Alex Caruso, but other teams have asked them what it would take to trade for him.
With the trade deadline just 24 hours away, Kyle Kuzma has made the case for the Lakers to keep him, but will they?
Kyle Kuzma isn’t worried about all the trade rumors his name has been included in.
He’s just remembered what Kobe Bryant told him about dealing with them, and he’s been able to thrive for the Lakers as a result.
Even with a 2-0 lead in the season series, the Clippers want to make sure they’re better than the Lakers.
The Lakers may have found another suitor for Kyle Kuzma, with the Knicks now willing to talk with teams about Marcus Morris as well.
The Lakers just went through one of the most emotional weeks an NBA team has ever faced.
There will no doubt be plenty of rumors, but can they actually make a deal right now?
It doesn’t seem like oft-rumored Lakers target is making a whole lot of progress in extricating himself from the Grizzlies, but he did make it clear he isn’t planning to play anywhere he doesn’t want to play this season.
Frank Vogel admitted that the Lakers will be open to trades that improve their team, but both he and LeBron James say the team isn’t talking about the deadline.
We’ll see if they do anything, but trade rumors about the Lakers are certainly starting to heat up this week.
Expect Kyle Kuzma to be a frequently discussed name.
We now have a little bit more information on how the Kyle Kuzma talks between the Lakers and Kings went, and which sides brought up Nemanja Bjelica and Bogdan Bogdanovic.
Kyle Kuzma hasn’t let trade rumors dictate his attitude this season.
The Lakers would love to add Derrick Rose to their guard rotation, but it doesn’t sound like Rose or the Pistons are interested in a move.
