NBA Free Agent Rumors: Who will the Lakers sign in free agency?
- Silver Screen and Roll
Filed under:
We already know that Anthony Davis will be priority No.
1 for the Lakers in free agency, but who else will the team add, and who will they bring back?
Let’s just get this out of the way: There are going to be a ton of NBA free agent rumors about the Lakers this offseason, and not all of them will come to pass.
Some will be legitimate news of interest from the team or player in question, and some will be the typical smokescreens we see from agents and teams every free agency period in attempts to drive a players’ value in one direction or the other.
Here at Silver Screen and Roll, we’re going to attempt to track and contextualize every reputable free agency rumor we see over the offseason.
This team may have just won a championship, but that only means that the offseason — and retaining the right players while adding smart new additions — has just become more important than ever while the Lakers try to bolster their chances of repeating.
Los Angeles has five players who are automatically free agents (Jared Dudley, Dwight Howard, Markieff Morris, Dion Waiters, and J.R. Smith) and five others who can join them in the market (Anthony Davis, Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Rajon Rondo, Avery Bradley and JaVale McGee, who all have player options and have expressed varying degrees of interest in declining or accepting them).
That’s 10 players on a 15-player roster, which leaves room for both retaining and tinkering by Rob Pelinka and the front office moving forward.
As they do so, the Lakers will have two major weapons for additions: The mid-level exception worth around $9.3 million, and the bi-annual exception worth around $3.6 million.
On this page, we are going to track all the latest trustworthy news and updates on both the Lakers’ free agents, and which players they’re linked to.
Bookmark it and come back, because we’ll be refreshing the list of stories below this and attempting to cut through the noise and see what’s legit all offseason long.
For more Lakers talk and free agency news, subscribe to the Silver Screen and Roll podcast feed on iTunes, Spotify, Stitcher or Google Podcasts.
Tristan Thompson would seem to be a great fit for the Lakers if he really wants to reunite with LeBron James in Los Angeles.
The Lakers have tried to get a scoring guard multiple times, dating back to last season.
Don’t expect many changes from the 2019-20 numbers.
NBA Insider Brian Windhorst chatted with us about several topics  as the Lakers get set to try and go for a repeat.
Kawhi Leonard wants the Clippers to get a new point guard.
It seems like they’ve set their free agency sights on Rajon Rondo as a result, but the Lakers don’t want to lose him.
Should the Lakers bring back their roster from last season or switch things up?
The Lakers plan on being championship contenders for a while.
Here’s what to know about the state of the Lakers roster heading into free agency.
The Lakers will have some work to do in free agency.
The Lakers will face some stiff competition for Dwight Howard in free agency.
There’s reportedly "significant mutual interest" between the Lakers and Kentavious Caldwell-Pope.
The Anthony Davis free agency saga isn’t expected to be much of a saga at all.
The question is: do the Lakers know that yet?
Let’s say it again: Anthony Davis is not leaving LeBron James and the Lakers in free agency.
Anthony Davis is staying with the Lakers in free agency.
He just can’t say that yet.
